

ombed by the tall eucalyptus trees at the edge of the road, the orange rays of sun cut through the dust as I gunned the throttle and the bike folded into the curve of the river. We were trying to beat the sunset back to Cuzco from the edge of the jungle--homeward bound--dodging cows, chickens and Indians, the rainbow-wrapped descendants of the Incas who everywhere seemed to freeze stark-still as we passed on our motorcycles.   

  We were seven riders at the end of a two-week cross-country motorbike tour of Peru that had taken us from Lima to the seaside Paracas National Reserve, across virgin beaches, into the mountain-high sand dunes of the Great Ica Desert, and finally up to the lost city of Machu Picchu. All things considered, our luck had been good, so I wasn't surprised when I spotted the crowd gathered around a truck and guessed the group's karma had changed.   

  The truck was parked against a hillside along the cliff road. A few people were examining a football-sized dent in its paint. Others were standing over a figure lying in the road wearing a deeply scratched helmet bearing a Union Jack. Damn! I thought. Duncan the Plumber is dead.   

  Dunc--a dead ringer for Eddie the Eagle, the nearly blind one-man English ski-jumping team of the '88 Olympics--was one of the five English lads on this trip, all good-time boys in their  30s from Birmingham. Among them were a tipsy car dealer, a diamond merchant, a randy software designer  and a hypochondriacal pharmacist. They rode like fighter  pilots and drank like Errol Flynn and regarded anyone who wasn't English to be blatantly inferior.   

  Except  for Duncan--he wasn't one of the Fab Four yahoos or  the product of an exclusive English school. He was a bit shy, with glasses as thick as his accent, and the worst luck of the trip. He'd had the most flat tires, got gasoline sprayed in his eyes, lost a camera and been sick. Never  did he say a negative word about anyone. Now he'd dented a truck with his head.


   I scrambled off my bike, bent over him and took off his helmet, checking for signs of life. He stirred, and finally sat up, peering at me through his dense glasses while what looked like little cuckoos and tiny planets circled his head. Poor Dunc. He was having the time of his life.


   The company that operates our tour is Inca Moto, and it's run by Flavio Salvetti, a six-foot-four, 37-year-old of Italian-Peruvian descent who looks exactly like you would imagine Tarzan to appear. (The English lads called him "Flagiloo.") For about   $3,100, Flavio provides a late-model Honda XR600, acts as multilingual guide, organizes mechanics who follow along in a radio-equipped support truck and arranges for comfortable accommodations. He will also set up neat side tours out of the saddle.


   Clients pay for international airfare and some meals, but Flavio does everything else, from filling the gas tanks to dealing with the locals and handling the endless red tape that is infamous in South America. It's worth the price.  (So is the Honda:  My usual ride is a Suzuki RM250 or  a Kawasaki KLX, but I was impressed. From sea level to 2.5 miles up in the Andes, through hub-deep sand and knee-deep water, over rocks and snow, hot and cold with no jetting changes and running on gasoline of suspect  octane--these bikes never even hiccuped.)


   On day one we headed south by bus from our colonial-era hotel in Lima to a hotel on the beach at Paracas just in time for a sunset dinner and Pisco sours. Trust me, two of these alcoholic blunderbusses is more than  adequate. The lads from Birmingham, however, decided that the Pisco sour was a food group and began their  trip by closing the bar at 6 a.m.


   At 7 a.m. Flavio took those who could walk on a boat ride to the Ballestas Islands to see sea lions fornicating and fighting. The wobbly penguins, someone observed, were walking just like the Brits. 


   Later, we headed to the desert where Flavio checked out each member's riding skills. That determines the difficulty of the trails used en route and whether groups should be broken up into different rider levels. (You needn't be an expert motorcyclist to have fun on the Inca Moto Adventure. One tour member, a female bank vice president from New York,  had been riding off and on for only two years.)


   The next day we rode in the waves of deserted beaches where 16th-century pirates lured ships to destruction on the rocks near Paracas. Then, turning inland on day four, we rode the seemingly endless steep dunes of the Ica desert, which was like experiencing weightlessness.


   Flavio showed us his cojones by throttling fast up a sand dune that looked as high as a skyscraper. He pulled a  one-eighty at the top, then coasted down at half throttle. When Martin, the car dealer, tried to top that performance, he ended up tumbling to earth on his arse. "Flagiloo" 1, Birmingham, nil. 


   Day five:  We boarded a Peruvian prop plane for a  side trip to view the mysterious Nazca lines:  drawings miles long of birds and animals that some--notably former Swiss hotelier turned best-selling author Erich von Daniken--believe have origins in outer space. (Over to you.) After landing and feeling grateful to be on something nearer to the ground, we fired up the bikes and took off to the high, lonesome (except for the llamas), awesomely beautiful Andes of the Quechua--descendants of the Incas. We stayed with them in the mountain village of Puquio drinking wine and coca tea around a kerosene stove in the corner store downstairs from the hotel. The next morning, I learned just what a high-altitude hangover is.


   Peru's president Fujimori is building roads through  the country almost faster than we could ride them, and I played hooky one morning to get a look at some of them. After warming up over a road gang's tar-pot fire, I raced Duncan down the steep, new corkscrew of a mountain highway that any road racer would love. We hurled down a dirt riverbed road and then poured on the coals to make it in time for a dinner of potatoes, lima beans, corn and guinea pig in Abancay.

