

NEW YORK. 5:40 PM EDT-
  
  IBM (nyse: IBM)
    said today that it will team up with Compaq Computer (nyse: CPQ) to produce
    computer network data storage products. The two firms said they could invest more than $1
    billion for the project.


 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

GE Capital, the financial services arm of General Electric (nyse: GE), plans to sell
    up to $20 billion in warrants, debt securities and preferred stock. Stamford, Conn.-based
    GE, which filed with the Securities and Exchange Commission Thursday, is expected to use
    the proceeds to pay for operations.

Computer services provider Electronic Data Systems (nyse: EDS) said it
    landed $2.8 billion in multiyear contracts in unrelated deals with Britain's Rolls-Royce
    and Australian banks.

British telecommunications firm Cable & Wireless (nyse: CWP) said it was
    entering a wireless Internet partnership with Finnish telecom equipment provider Nokia (nyse:
    NOK). Nokia said it will provide the services platform, applications and systems integration that are compatible with C&W's Internet systems.


  America Online (nyse: AOL)
    agreed today to a three-year content and promotional contract with E! Online, the
    Web site of multimedia company E! Entertainment Networks. E! Online and E!
    Entertainment Television will provide news from the entertainment world across many AOL
    brands, including the newly launched AOLTV. AOL will be promoted on E! Online and offline
    advertising and distribution channels. Terms of the deal were not released. This is the
    most recent in a long list of promotional agreements Dulles, Va.-based Internet giant AOL
    has entered in recent weeks. 
  

Pharmaceutical company Lilly (nyse: LLY) said Thursday
    it received FDA approval for Sarafem, the first prescription drug for women who suffer
    acute mood and physical symptoms around their menstrual cycles. The company said that
    clinical studies showed that women treated with Sarafem experienced improvement in mood
    and physical symptoms, as well as social functioning, compared with women taking placebo.
    The company, which introduced antidepressant drug Prozac, saw its shares soar late last
    month after it announced that its experimental drug Zovant was effective in reducing
    deaths from septic infections. 

The Internet Advertising Bureau, a trade group for online advertisers and
    marketers, today announced it has drawn up voluntary rules for Internet sites and
    advertisers to protect the privacy of Web surfers. 

The World Bank said today that it is prepared to lend about $1 billion to Russia
    to help the country bolster its struggling economy. The World Bank said that its officials
    will be in Moscow next week to discuss Russia's economy.