
When we went out and polled numerous venture capitalists, investment bankers, and entrepreneurs on who they consider to be the best VCs in the country, we were a little worried we'd get the same old names. And while we did get a few we expected (Doerr, Khosla, Moritz), we also got a few we didn't (McCance, Roizen). Even more interesting, our poll often uncovered the hidden talent in some top-tier firms, such as Benchmark Capital's Andy Rachleff. The list below also illustrates the changing world of venture capital. Not only are two women represented but so are two VCs from Softbank Venture Capital and Benchmark Capital, companies that weren't even around five years ago. The only other firms so well represented are the venerable Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers and Sequoia Capital. In addition, one of our biggest point getters was a Young Turk named Geoff Yang at Redpoint Ventures.


 


JIM BREYER Accel Partners
What nobody knows:  He's an avid fly fisherman.
Achilles' heel:  "Taking on too much responsibility"
Last deal:  Walmart.com
Most famous deal:  Walmart.com 
Biggest mistake:  "Not devoting  enough time to helping a save-the-schools  initiative"
Number of company board seats:  10


If you had to pick the best person to bring the world's largest retailer, Wal-Mart, into the world's largest potential market, the Internet, Breyer's the right one for the job. Called "the best ever" and "world-class" by our sources, Breyer is most admired for his ability to build enduring companies. Says one industry watcher, "If you're in a market where you want to get as much attention as possible, and then get out quick, you go to a P. T. Barnum type like Doerr. If you want a long-haul guy, you go to Breyer." Of course, in the age of Internet time, that may prove more of a liability than an asset. 


Still, it's worked so far. His investments include RealNetworks, Agile Software, Macromedia, Foundry Networks, Redback Networks, Actuate, and a score of other companies that have either gone public or been bought. McKinsey grad Breyer is also known for being very smart, but without the usual attendant arrogance. "He's got less pride of ownership of new ideas than most of those guys," says a source. That gentlemanliness, though, doesn't extend to his peers:  Accel was a prototype of today's generation of hardball venture capital firms. Sitting in his glass-enclosed throne room in the Bastille-like Accel headquarters, Breyer is a benevolent ruler but a deadly neighbor.



JERRY COLONNA Flatiron Partners
What nobody knows:  No M.B.A.,  just a B.A.
Achilles' heel:  Too instinctual,  not methodical
Last deal:  Small World Sports
Most famous deal:  GeoCities
Biggest mistake:  "Not moving fast enough to change a CEO at a  portfolio company"
Number of company board seats:  5


Colonna describes himself as a "West Coast-style investor:  You know, shoot first and ask questions later." It's a remarkable comment from a guy who graduated with a degree in English literature from Queens College, talks with his hands, and works on Park Avenue as the managing partner in a company named after Manhattan's oldest skyscraper.


 But then, Colonna is no ordinary VC. For one thing, while other VCs have come out of journalism (Mike Moritz, Stewart Alsop), the voluble Colonna is one of the few who has a background as an editor and publisher:  He spent nearly a decade at Information Week, three years as its editor. He is living proof that editors can be rehabilitated to perform useful work. 


Colonna, with partner Fred Wilson, founded Flatiron in 1996, when Silicon Alley was still a publicity ploy and New York hadn't seen a real high tech VC since Arthur Rock's departure almost 40 years before. The pair managed to find investors in Chase Capital and Softbank, printed up business cards at Kinko's, and were on their way. 


Not surprisingly, the reputation  of Silicon Alley is synonymous with Colonna and Flatiron. Two of the best-known firms in the neighborhood,  Multex.com and TheStreet, are Flatiron companies. But if being a rare example of an NYVC has given him a good rep, what put him on this list are the deals he's made outside the boroughs:  StarMedia, the Latin American Internet portal, and GeoCities (acquired by Yahoo). These days, Colonna also is working with MOUSE Inc., a nonprofit group helping inner-city kids learn about technology. That doesn't sound like a typical shoot-from-the-hip West Coast-style investor.



JOHN DOERR  Kleiner Perkins Caufield & Byers
What nobody knows:  He wears the same silver-and-dark-blue tie to  virtually all outings.
Achilles' heel:  His fame and his  extracurricular activities cut into  his VC bandwidth.
Last deal:  Smartpipes
Most famous deal:  Netscape 
Biggest mistake:  Investing in Go  Corporation, an ill-fated pen-based computing company
Number of company board seats:  19


Listen...do you hear angels singing?


It is no longer possible to write simply about this veteran venture capitalist named John Doerr, so wrapped is he now in the mantle of myth and fable. He has become both the sign and the signifier of high tech venture capitalism, a metaphor for success, the synecdoche of the entire e-commerce era. That's a lot of freight to carry to the office in your PalmPilot each morning. Megalomaniacs are made from a lot less. But  it is to Doerr's credit that he hasn't become a grotesque or a hectoring Mother Hubbard (though, with time, all his Democratic political work bears that risk). 


The list of Doerr wins is itself a touchstone, like DiMaggio's major league record hitting streak--Compaq, Cypress, Netscape, Sun Microsystems, Lotus, Amazon.com, Healtheon, Intuit, Excite@Home. Even Doerr's failures, like pen computing, have an epic, Homeric quality to them. 


So why is John Doerr better than all the rest? One answer is timing. After leaving Intel in 1980, he got into the VC game at the right time and while still a young man. While most other 20-year venture veterans are all but out of the business, Doerr is still in his prime with no apparent loss of enthusiasm. He is a superb time manager ("I would rather have John Doerr on my board even if he's on 15 other boards," says one source). He is also very smart, a shrewd judge of character--be it in a startup team or in an interviewing reporter--and a master (that is, you never see him do it) manipulator. Finally, with the same sleight of hand, Doerr is also a brilliant promoter both of himself and his companies ("the ultimate salesman," says one observer), talking only to  a select group of friendly, powerful reporters. Put these together and you have a living legend. Nowadays, though, it's hard to tell whether Doerr is still unmatched at finding great companies (maybe not:  He helped bring Martha Stewart Living to life) or whether he's so famous that all the great companies find their way to him. How long can he keep this up? Probably as long as he wants to. Or until his cell phone rings with a call from POTUS (President of the United States). We'll know the first Tuesday of November.


	