Venice vs. the Venetian



omething has been going on in Las Vegas that I didn't understand. I mean, something besides blackjack and whether to draw on 16 when the dealer is showing a face card. Las Vegas is one of the most peculiar cities in the world, but apparently that's not enough. Las Vegas has decided to become all the world's other peculiar cities, too. The gambling capital already has "Paris Las Vegas" and "New York New York." In the Nevada version of the City of Light, waiters never mock you for ordering in the local lingo. If something smells like a smoldering Doberman, you can safely call the fire department--it's not an existentialist smoking a Gaulois. And at New York New York, you'll experience a wonderful, heartwarming phenomenon that the native Gothamite will never know--parking.l So far so good with the urbanity impersonators on the Strip. (Although one might prefer that the cities chosen for replication were cities that really needed replacing, not to mention roulette and girlie shows. I suggest "Dayton Ohio Las Vegas" and "Tehran Tehran.") But now comes a more ambitious facsimile, a truly daunting attempt at civic doppelgänging. "We are not going to build a 'faux' Venice," said Sheldon Adelson, announcing plans for his Venetian resort and casino. "We're going to build what is essentially the real Venice."


   Anyone who can make a bagel and a lot of noise can create a convincing New York. And Paris as we know it today is mostly a recent fabrication--the product of urban renewal in the 1870s, when the French government undertook an innovative program of slum clearance by killing all the members of the Paris Commune. But Venice is another matter--heir to Byzantium, progenitor of Marco Polo, patron of Titian and inspiration to Lord Byron, who


   Look'd to the wingèd Lion's marble piles,


   Where Venice sate in state, throned on her hundred isles!


   AND WE SHOULD GET THAT WINGED LION TREATED because marble piles sound very painful. Anyway, there is a mystery to Venice, a soul, an essence--quite a strong essence on a hot August day when the tide is low in the Adriatic. Phew!


   "You didn't get the smell right," I said to Sheldon Adelson.


   "Can't do everything," he said. Although he certainly has tried. Pulling into the Doge's Palace driveway you can see St. Mark's Square, the clock tower with its clockwork Moors, the twin columns topped by Saint Theodore and the winged lion of St. Mark's that needs Preparation H, the Campanile, the Sansoviniana Library, the Ca' d'Oro palace, the Bridge of Sighs and the Rialto. This is a lot more than you can see from the original Doge's Palace driveway, especially since it doesn't have one.


   Observing the desiccated landscape around Las Vegas, a city with an average rainfall of 4.2 inches a year, one might think Sheldon Adelson faced a major obstacle to building "the real Venice." After all, what was the main physical feature causing Venice to be Venice? Barbarians, as it turns out. Venice is built on a mud bank in the middle of a lagoon and is up to its venetian blinds in water because of barbarians. Attila the Hun chased the Italians out there in A.D. 453. So Sheldon Adelson was in luck, Las Vegas being filled with barbarians, particularly the kind who wear black socks and Nikes and T-shirts and shorts to restaurants at night and leave their baseball caps on during dinner.