
July 06, 2000




AOL Plays The Content Field

By Amy Doan


SILICON VALLEY. 5:45 PM EDT-The biggest fear about the proposed America Online–Time Warner
merger is that the $124 billion deal will put us all on a severely restricted media diet.
Combine Time’s media empire with AOL’s digital one, consumer advocates fret, and
you get one scary überchannel of movies, music and magazines. 



 More news from... 
Forbes.com

	
Trader Wrapup: Tech Stocks Dragged Lower

	
	
Yahoo! Launches Voice Services

	
	
News Scan P.M. 

	

Complete headlines...  



Newswires
	

Tech Stocks At Session Low In Late Afternoon

	

Technology Stocks Stumble As Chip Fears Worsen

	

Tech Stocks Slip As Wall Street Awaits Key Earnings

	

Complete headlines...  




Message boards
	
 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:


 
Go!
	


But AOL (nyse: AOL)
seems determined to prove that idea wrong. Today it announced a three-year agreement with
E! Entertainment, owned by Walt Disney (nyse: DIS), Comcast
and AT&T (nyse: T), which may end up
giving E! Online even better positioning than Time-owned EntertainmentWeekly.com. That
should ease the fears of consumer groups and shareholders for now, but it’s bad news
to Time (nyse: TWX)
businesses expecting sweetheart deals. 



SILICON VALLEY. 5:45 PM EDT-The biggest fear about the proposed America Online–Time Warner
merger is that the $124 billion deal will put us all on a severely restricted media diet.
Combine Time’s media empire with AOL’s digital one, consumer advocates fret, and
you get one scary überchannel of movies, music and magazines. 

 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

"Everyone was worried that AOL would become this showcase for Time Warner,"
says Lise Buyer, an analyst with Credit Suisse First Boston in Palo Alto, Calif.
"It’s important that AOL prove to the outside world that they’re going to
take a best-of-breed approach."

Today’s partnership will keep E! Online as one of four "anchor tenants"
in the entertainment section of AOL’s site. EW.com is also one of the four tenants,
under a deal AOL struck with Time New Media in October 1998. But the three-year agreement
with E! adds E! content to AOLTV, Netscape Netcenter, the ICQ instant messaging service
and AOL’s Moviefone services, where Entertainment Weekly has no deals in place
yet.

"We’re always looking to add new content, and E! is a channel our subscribers
love," says David Theiss, AOL’s public relations director in Dulles, Va. AOL,
Time and Entertainment Weekly executives did not comment. 

E! also has about three times the visitors as its Time-owned competitor, according to a
May 2000 report by Media Metrix in New York. E! Online had 3.1 million visitors to
EW.com’s 1.2 million. 

"They have to do this. Shareholders would be incredibly leery if they were only
doing deals with themselves, regardless of traffic numbers or other business
factors," says Kurt Billick, an analyst with UBS Warburg in San Francisco.

AOL has renewed other agreements with non-Time outlets, like CBS-owned SportsLine
(nasdaq: SPLN),
since the merger talks started. Early last year SportsLine.com got a three-year content
deal with AOL. But Time Warner owns CNNSI.com, and skeptics wonder if the deals will be
renewed next time.

AOL’s careful agnosticism may disappear if the merger is finalized. It’s just
possible that the "best-of-breed" approach will give way to the
"best-of-friends" strategy.