

NEW YORK. 10:50 AM EDT-Dixons is famous for selling computers, televisions and other electrical goods by
the thousands. But now the British retail giant is offering a new product: the U.K.'s
largest Internet service provider.

 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

Dixons (otc: DXNGY),
which has an 80% stake in Freeserve (nasdaq: FREE), has been
talking to several potential buyers since May but so far without success. 

Dixons' share price dropped 7% when T-Online, Deutsche Telekom's (nyse: DT) Internet
subsidiary, was ruled out as a potential buyer, which was officially announced on June 26.
As the search for a buyer continues, Dixons is giving very little information away. On
July 5, the company issued a statement that said: "Dixons and Freeserve continue to
have discussions with a number of parties about a variety of potential transactions."

Dixons is thought to be asking a high price for Freeserve. With a current share price
of approximately $50, Freeserve has a market capitalization of about $5.8 billion; Dixons
is reportedly looking for a deal that values Freeserve at around $9 billion. 

The high price is not the only reason why Dixons might have difficulty finding a buyer.
"There are not many companies that could gain synergies from buying it,"
according to Nick Jones, an analyst at Jupiter Communications in London.

A Freeserve spokesman, who asked not to be identified, says Dixons will not necessarily
sell its entire stake in Freeserve. "A more appropriate holding for Freeserve might
be 15% to 20%," he says. But to reduce its holding to that level, Dixons has to sell
more than 50% of Freeserve's shares--so potential buyers still have the chance to acquire
control of the company.

Freeserve is considering making some acquisitions itself, such as companies in the
telecom, content and media sectors. Other ISPs are already trying this strategy: America
Online (nyse: AOL)
is trying to acquire media conglomerate Time Warner (nyse: TWX), and Vivendi
recently announced plans to acquire Seagram (nyse: VO) in order to
acquire Universal Studios and a string of record labels.

Jupiter Communications' Jones says this strategy could work in some cases, but he
cautions that Freeserve, which has been operational for less than two years, is at a
competitive disadvantage. "They've got to build an AOL-type operation, but they're
four years behind," he says. Freeserve has 1.7 million subscribers, compared with
AOL's 23 million. T-Online, Europe's largest ISP, has 5 million subscribers.

Four years is an eon in Internet time. Freeserve has been up for grabs for at least two
months, and even that's a long time in the high-speed Internet world. As the search for a
buyer continues, the deal will become increasingly unattractive.