There was a time when a Tom Watson Jr. or a Henry Ford II would assume a chairmanship with something akin to a royal right of succession. Nowadays corporate heirs are being held back--even at private companies.
		
		

AUGUST A. BUSCH IV TAKES A SWIG FROM ONE OF NINE PARtially filled glasses of beer and delivers his verdict. "Slightly thick, full and unfinished," he announces to the other Anheuser-Busch executives gathered recently in the tasting room at company headquarters in St. Louis. Evaluating beer comes naturally to a fifth-generation scion who, as a newborn, was supposedly anointed with a dab of it on his tongue--a Busch family tradition. But another family tradition could prove less enduring. For the first time in this 148-year-old company's history, uninterrupted family management isn't a given. Busch IV, 35, won't necessarily win the chairmanship if his hard-driving dad, Anheuser-Busch boss August A. Busch III, 62, begins scaling back in three years, as expected. 


   Not so long ago, Busch IV couldn't conceive the possibility of not succeeding "the chief," whom he idolizes. Today he expresses his aspiration as something that might happen later rather than sooner. "I'd be lying if I told you I didn't want to be CEO," he says carefully. "That's an ambition I have and one I want to see become a reality. But I'm young--with time on my side."


   These doubts weren't around a quarter of a century ago when Busch III, then 38, overthrew his dad, August (Gussie) Busch Jr. Rival Miller was growing aggressively, Anheuser-Busch's profits were slipping and its stock price was sagging. Busch III, newly named president, went behind his father's back and convinced the board of directors it was time for a change. They went along--and the decision was vindicated:  Since then the brewer's share of the U.S. beer market has more than doubled, to 48% ; the stock has risen twelvefold.


   But these days most directors are not so willing to roll over for a chief executive, much less a pretender to the throne. More than ever before, children are being forced to compete for the top job, sometimes laboring for a period under a chief executive who comes from outside the family, sometimes being passed over entirely.


   It's rare to find a dictatorial leader like Thomas Watson Sr. of IBM who could engineer the appointment of his son as chief executive, as he did in 1956, even though the Watson family at the time owned only a small percentage of IBM's stock. Nor will most directors put up with anything like the audacity of former Seagram chairman Edgar Bronfman Sr., who announced in a 1986 magazine interview that his callow son, Edgar Jr., would succeed him. That stunned family members and Seagram executives. Shareholders didn't benefit from this transition; since June 1994, when the younger Bronfman took over, the stock has lagged the market by 66%.


   In this era, when powerful board members can throw out a chairman, as they've done at Coca-Cola, Kodak, General Motors and Mattel, they can refuse to go along with handing over the reins. They can force family heirs to cool their heels before opening the doors to the corner office, as they have at Motorola and Comdisco. Or they can test members of the lucky-sperm club to see if they're worthy of the top job. It supposedly took William Clay Ford Jr., great-grandson of the founder of Ford Motor, two years to convince a skeptical board to take him seriously--despite the fact that the Ford family controls 40%  of the voting shares. Named chairman in 1998, Bill Ford plays second fiddle to Jacques Nasser, the chief executive.


   Could Busch III handpick his successor? Anheuser-Busch's board is, by today's corporate governance standards, a fairly clubby bunch--including fellow executives on whose boards Busch III sits, the in-house p.r. adviser and a first cousin who evidently helped him in the power grab in 1975. But Busch III owns less than 1%  of the company, thanks to his father's four wives and ten other offspring.


"I'd be lying if I told you I didn't want to be CEO. But I'm young-        with time on my side."

   Big institutional investors control 63%  of Anheuser-Busch. Will they accept Busch IV, given his relative inexperience and thrill-seeking young adulthood? He's still trying to put behind him a Ted Kennedy-like car wreck in 1983 in which a young woman died. (He wasn't charged with an offense.) He held on to his beloved Harley-Davidson motorcycle until last November. The bachelor Busch has asked friends if he should marry--to make himself appear more buttoned-down.


   Overseeing marketing for more than 30 Anheuser-Busch brands, Busch IV has been recognized for jazzing up Budweiser's image with commercials that feature chattering frogs and a bunch of beer-swigging guys who shout "Whassup?" to one another. He successfully rolled out Bud Dry and lime-flavored Tequiza. But what about finance and manufacturing and strategic decisions? There's a lot more to running a company than marketing pizzazz, as Mattel's Jill Barad found out. The November promotion of Busch's domestic beer chief, Patrick T. Stokes, 57, to chairman of its international division may be a sign that a more battle-hardened executive is being positioned to take over when Busch III leaves. 


   More than one-third of the nation's 500 largest public companies are still family-controlled, estimates Joseph Astrachan, editor of Family Business Review. "In today's marketplace, where the skills needed to run a business are getting more sophisticated, the likelihood that one's children will have all the talents that are necessary isn't all that high," says Ralph Daniel, founder of the Center for Family Business Dynamics in Santa Barbara, Calif. "If children or in-laws aren't the very best people to take on leadership, the family needs to bring in someone else." An outsider can keep the company out of the hands of underqualified kids who end up trashing it. At the Rite Aid drugstore chain, the board installed Martin Grass, son of the founder, in the top job in 1995 but soon regretted it. After some embarrassing revelations about inflated profits and self-dealing, Martin was pushed out in October.


   Families can hold on to power by keeping voting control even as their equity stakes get diluted or taxed away. The Sulzberger family controls 88%  of the voting power at the New York Times Co. while owning only 17%  of the company's class A shares. In 1991 the board of directors delayed by three months a decision by 65-year-old Chairman and Chief Executive Arthur Ochs Sulzberger to promote his son, Arthur Jr., to publisher. Some insiders felt the younger Sulzberger was too green when his father named him chairman in 1997. Russell Lewis--a nonfamily senior executive--was named chief executive to work closely with him.


   The Times' supervoting shares have been around since the common shares were offered to the public in 1969. It's not so easy to make this kind of power play after the fact, at least not nowadays. The California Public Employees' Retirement System struck down Marriott International's attempt to set up a dual stock system in 1998. That plan could have given the Marriott family 45%  voting control, compared with the 21%  it owns--and given the kids of Chief Executive J.W. (Bill) Marriott Jr. a clearer shot at succeeding their dad. 


   Boards aren't pushovers anymore. The directors of  $31 billion (sales) Motorola, where the founding family controls only 3%  of the shares, apparently prevailed in bringing in an outside consigliere. As a result, Christopher Galvin served under a nonfamily management team for seven years after his father, Robert, stepped down from the company his father founded. Robert reportedly asked board members if they would agree to appoint his son, then-president and chief operating officer, as George Fisher's replacement when Fisher left Motorola in 1993. Nope, they said. The younger Galvin had to wait an additional four years to become chief executive. The experience makes him something of an expert on moving up in a publicly-held company. That's probably why August Busch IV asked his advice during a quail-hunting trip. They would seem to have had a lot to talk about.


   The descendants of Estée Lauder took care to retain 93.3%  voting control when they took her cosmetics company public. Even so, the third generation, now waiting in the wings, will have to wait a bit longer. On Jan. 4 Fred H. Langhammer, 55, took over the  $4 billion (sales) cosmetics maker to give the probable heir, 39-year-old William Lauder, a chance to grow into the job. Langhammer, the longtime second-in-command to Chairman Leonard Lauder, has a five-and-a-half-year contract in his new post. The younger Lauder, president of Clinique Laboratories, already seems poised to jump up the ladder. Still, "Why rush things if rushing isn't needed?" says Leonard Lauder, his father. "People are like wine. When they sit in the bottle long enough, they get mellow, and they get far more drinkable."


"You have to work harder than everyone else because you will be      criticized if you slip up."

   The combative William could use a little mellowing, but maybe he has been good for the buttoned-down company. He fought to open its first freestanding store for Origins "New Age" cosmetics--an aggressive move that could have alienated department stores but turned into a success. 


   William Lauder says he's been frustrated at times by second-guessing. "My first two weeks on the job [as president of Clinique in 1998], I was getting a phone call from Fred every single day saying, 'You have to do this.' Or from my father saying, 'You can't say this; you've got to say that.' Finally after two weeks of this I said, 'Stop! Just stop!'"


   A stand-in chief executive probably saved Comdisco, the technology services company, from calamity. Nicholas K. Pontikes, now 35, wasn't ready to lead the company in 1994 when his father, founder Kenneth Pontikes, died of colon cancer. So, at the board's urging, Executive Vice President John Slevin, who'd worked at Comdisco for two decades, stepped in. The younger Pontikes took over in 1999.


   At Nordstrom, where the family controls 24%  of the stock, Chairman and Chief Executive John Whitacre, an outsider, will probably target the most promising successor from a cluster of relatives--five co-presidents, all family members. "Whitacre is there, in part, to provide tutelage," says Craig Aronoff, co-chairman of the Family Business Consulting Group in Marietta, Ga. "Will one or more of the Nordstroms end up leading the company? My guess is they will."


   Caretaker leaders are even showing up in large privately held companies. During his last years as chief executive at the family-owned Raley's, outsider Charles Collings says he was fighting to keep the  $3 billion (sales), 152-store grocery chain independent, rejecting offers from potential buyers. "In my opinion, had there not been an interested family member, the business would have been sold," says Collings, 74. That's when he decided to bring in Michael Teel, whose grandfather founded Raley's. Teel had left the grocery business for a sales job at Executone Information Services. Collings put him on a four-year development path to the top; Teel ended up serving in a number of divisions, including accounting, personnel and marketing." You have to work harder than everyone else because you're observed and criticized if you slip up in the least," says Teel, 48, who became chief executive in 1998.


   Like Collings, many nonfamily chiefs have two critical roles:  to help the company prosper--and pinpoint a successor. "My main role is to make sure that this company passes to the next generation in an excellent state of health," says William Perez, chief executive of privately held,  $4.1 billion (sales) SC Johnson. Mentoring the family's fifth generation--including Fisk, 41, and his sister, Helen Johnson-Leipold, 42--is part of his job description. He once confided to company Chairman Samuel C. Johnson that his son, Fisk, now vice chairman, had "officer potential."


   And what do you do when you want to hand over the company to your children and there aren't any takers? Tootsie Roll Industries Chairman Melvin Gordon, 80, and his wife, Ellen, company president, would like to keep the public,  $397 million (sales) confectioner family-run. Problem is, not one of their four daughters, who all work full time in other businesses, is involved at Tootsie Roll yet. "They are interested, and one day they may become active," says Ellen Gordon, 68. And if they don't? "We have a succession plan, but we don't have to announce what it is." Maybe they don't have to, legally, but this is, after all, a public company, isn't it?


   Maurice R. (Hank) Greenberg, 74, who in running American International Group for 33 years has built it to  $267 billion in assets, caused a stir recently when he announced his successor. His 45-year-old son, Evan, he said, would "absolutely" take over the insurance giant "when it's appropriate." It's a big when. The elder Greenberg, whose family controls just 2%  of the company, has no intentions of retiring. Still, he reportedly convinced AIG's board in 1997 to force veteran Thomas Tizzio to give up the president's job to Evan. If Hank Greenberg suddenly died, would the board put Evan on the throne? It's not a given, and the hurdle gets higher every year.

