Jon Swartz is a senior editor in Forbes.com's Silicon Valley Bureau. Previously, he was an Internet columnist and reporter for the San Francisco Chronicle. He has covered Silicon Valley for more than a decade.

Even a strafed mountainside contains some pockets of ore.



If the nasty Nasdaq tumble didn't scare away high-tech gamblers, and investors haven't mined the online market for a mother lode the past several years, is there any virtual gold left to pan for?



"While we still think most Internet stocks are as valuable as a cubic-zirconia wedding ring, there are some gems in the pile of rubbish," says Aram Fuchs, CEO of Fertilemind.net and author of the 4 Beautiful Babies Thrown Out With The Internet Bathwater report.



So what are the quartet of quality investments?



Homestore.com (nasdaq: HOMS), a leading Web site for home and real-estate information, boasts distribution agreements with America Online (nyse: AOL), Excite@Home (nasdaq: ATHM) and Disney's Go.com network (nyse: GO). It also provides content exclusively to the National Association of Realtors. Homestore.com is on pace to almost double annual sales, to $140 million, in 2000.



MediaBay (nasdaq: MBAY) peddles audio books, videos, CDs and magazines to 2.3 million consumers. Because it is the world's largest seller of talking books, this virtual newsstand didn't have to spend a fortune for online real estate with distributors AOL, Yahoo! (nasdaq: YHOO) and Microsoft (nasdaq: MSFT). Fuchs believes that, with the advent of digital downloads, MediaBay will inflate its gross margins above 30%.



NextCard (nasdaq: NTCD), the first Net-based credit-card firm with an "instant approval" system, has leveraged marketing agreements with Amazon.com (nasdaq: AMZN) and Priceline.com (nasdaq: PCLN) to sign up 220,000 cardholders in the last three months of 1999. As a result, quarterly sales soared 73%, to $13.9 million.



PcOrder.com (nasdaq: PCOR) has developed a database of computer parts--in fact, 600,000 parts for 1,000 PC makers and retailers, including Compaq Computer (nyse: CPQ), Hewlett-Packard (nyse: HWP) and Ingram Micro (nyse: IM). Flush with $51.4 million in cash, pcOrder.com rang up $15.3 million in sales for its first quarter ended March 31.



(Encouraging) Sign Of The Times.  A scrawled, handmade sign said it all at Pacific Bell Park on Tuesday night.



"E-This" read the Howard Beale-impassioned missive, aimed at the cell-phone-weaned sect who were presumably at a baseball game but squeezed it in among their oh-so-important calls. Home-run hero Mark McGwire and the St. Louis Cardinals were in town to play the San Francisco Giants, but the Gen-IPOers (to steal a phrase coined by fellow columnist Adam Penenberg) could care less.



I vented last week about the Internet element polluting San Francisco with its toxic presence. Reader reaction was overwhelmingly positive, with the exception of one yuppie whiner. But the fact remains: There is deep resentment among rank-and-file workers toward their preening, self-aggrandizing dot-com neighbors.



"Hey, cell man!" bellowed a beer-swilling Giants fan. "Log off, Web hog!"



I couldn't have put it better.



UBUBU. No, this isn't a typo.



It's a startup with a new look on bookmarks. UBUBU has designed cartoonish planets that act as "virtual bookmarks." Here's how it works: A user adds his favorite Web addresses, which appear in the form of stunning icons, to a spinning globe on his computer screen. When the splashy icon is clicked on, the desired link pops up on screen.



"I call it an entertainment interface," says Brian Backus, chief executive of the San Francisco startup. "Others prefer to call it content."



Whatever you call it, it's a more intuitive fashion to hook cybersurfers to favorite Web sites. And, with the advent of faster PCs and 3-D technology, the interactive bookmarks make better use of embedded film and sound.



UBUBU, which subsists on branding deals and ads, debuts at the end of June.



We Get The Picture. Yet another visual directory--this one called Sticky Networks--is putting a face on the Internet. Its Web-navigation technology will illustrate e-commerce and content sites with product snapshots when it becomes available June 10. This contextual approach is ideal for online auctioneers (are you listening, eBay?) and for e-tailers who want to retain cybershoppers.



Sticky Networks is led by former Infoseek CEO Robin Johnson, and bankrolled by Warburg Pincus Equity Partners and Acon Ventures. 



Survey Says. Dot-coms have spent billions on television ads to lure consumers, but little on service and support to keep them. Those are the sobering results of a survey of 400 Web users, according to market researcher Vividence. E-tailers biggest hurdle? Their inability to build a loyal customer base.



Sites Of The Week. Leapin' lizards! Or, more precisely, flying cows! The over-the-moon Web site, mediafarm, is a moo-ving Norwegian import that is sure to catapult to the top of cybersurfer's bookmarks.



I'm not a doctor and I don't play one on television. But I can tell you that vcure is a stellar prescription for online medical information. Now take two aspirin and e-mail me in the morning.








Got any interesting Web sites or 
                        opinions you'd like to share? Send your missives to jswartz@forbes.com.


