

NEW YORK. 12:25 PM EST-Yahoo! (nasdaq: YHOO) is
taking the leap into local entertainment and cultural listings, a market littered with
high-profile casualties.

 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

The portal is hoping its brawn, coupled with the wireless boom, can help it succeed
where companies like Microsoft (nasdaq: MSFT) have
failed miserably.

Yahoo!'s entertainment guide, launched today, provides information on local events such
as concerts, plays, movies, net events, recreation and sports. Yahoo! weaves these
listings, which it gets from content partners such as Ticketmaster Online CitySearch
(nasdaq: TMCS),
with its existing local content and events listings, such as maps, yellow pages, chat
sessions and broadband shows.

On the face of it, Yahoo!'s move into local listings may seem bold, perhaps foolishly
so. Despite the vast potential of the local advertising market--yellow pages advertising
alone accounts for $13 billion--no one has yet been able to bring those ad dollars to the
Internet. But Yahoo! has learned some valuable lessons from its competitors' missteps and
could actually be the one to succeed with local content.

At one point, giants such as Microsoft, USA Networks (nasdaq: USAI) and
AOL slugged it out for leadership in the local market. Microsoft finally caved in and sold
its Sidewalk city guide for $280 million in stock to USA Networks' Ticketmaster Online
CitySearch, which has established itself as the leader over AOL's Digital City. 

Part of the problem is local guides haven't exactly been runaway hits with Web surfers.
Although the medium may seem ideally suited for local listings, most people still get
their weather reports, arts and entertainment news and movie show times from their local
paper, the evening newscast or AOL's Moviefone. CitySearch ranks as the 27th most popular
Web site in Media Metrix's (nasdaq: MMXI)
January report, with a less-than-impressive 6.1 million unique visitors.

Despite their mediocre traffic, city guides are expensive to produce. Updating lists
and covering the local arts and entertainment scene require a presence in most
metropolitan cities. Before it was folded into CitySearch, Microsoft's Sidewalk had 90
full-time editorial employees working across the country. 

So why is Yahoo! entering a market with such unfavorable odds?

For one thing, Yahoo! is sticking to its role as an aggregator, not a content producer.
Yahoo! is aggregating content from a number of existing local guides, such as Ticketmaster
Online CitySearch and New York-based Culturefinder. And Yahoo! isn't paying much, if
anything, for that content. The portal of portals is muscling content providers to give
away its information for free. Much like AOL, it has found that media companies are
willing to give away their content--even pay to give it away--just to get access to
the portal's vast distribution.

That vast distribution--120 million monthly visitors and 100 million registered
users--is an asset Yahoo! has used time and again to crush its competition, whether it's
in news, financial data or Internet gaming. Unlike other dot-coms, which have to spend
millions to advertise their services on radio, television and in print, Yahoo! just has to
place a few ads on its own network to pump up the audience for a new area.

Moreover, Yahoo! is moving into the market at an opportune time. Wireless devices are
suddenly making local content hot. In Japan, where Internet-powered mobile phones are a
huge success, people on the move use mobile phones to find a nearby restaurant, buy movie
tickets and check the local weather. Europe is also taking off, and U.S. carriers have
tentatively dipped their toes into the burgeoning market. 

Wireless devices are shifting the Web's epicenter from global to local. If Yahoo! wants
to remain the top dog in online content, the portal must move with the eyeballs.