Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

MP3.com Reaches Tentative Pact with Publishers

NEW YORK (Reuters) - Online music company MP3.com Inc. said
on Wednesday it would pay up to $30 million to music publishers
in a preliminary pact that would give it the right to use more
than one million songs as part of its Internet-based service.

Under the terms of the deal, trade group National Music
Publishers' Association and its licensing subsidiary Harry Fox
Agency, will allow the songs to be used as part of a service
called My.MP3.com, which allows users to store music digitally
and then access it via any computer.

The service relies on a database of more than 80,000 albums
that MP3.com initially created without the permission of the
music publishers or the world's largest record labels that also
own the rights to the music.

A U.S. District Court ruled in April that MP3.com broke
copyright law by creating the database. Since MP3.com has
settled with four of the five major labels: Time Warner Inc.'s
Warner Brothers music group, Sony Music Entertainment, BMG, the
music unit of Bertelsmann AG and EMI Group Plc (news - web sites).

Seagram Co.'s Universal Music Group is the only major label
not to have reached an agreement with MP3.com. Following a
September ruling on damages by the same court, MP3.com could
face up to $250 million in damages. MP3.com said it would
appeal the decision.

The agreement requires the ratification of the member
publishing companies and approval by the court. Independent
publishers MPL Communications, which is controlled by former
Beatle Paul McCartney, and Peer International Corp. also
reached agreement with MP3.com.

Under the three-year agreement, MP3.com's maximum $30
million payment will cover payments to publishers for past uses
of their music on the My.MP3.com service as well as advance
royalty payments.

Under the royalty terms, MP3.com will pay a quarter of a
cent each time a song is accessed on the service and a one-time
fee each time a user stores a song on the service.

MP3.com shares closed at $2-3/4 in Tuesday's Nasdaq
trading, up $1/16 from the previous close. The company traded
as high as $105 in its first day of trading in July 1999.

