Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

George Michael Buys John Lennon's 'Imagine' Piano

LONDON (Reuters) - Pop superstar George Michael was named
on Wednesday as the buyer of John Lennon's piano, paying 1.45
million pound ($2.1 million) in order to keep the piece of
entertainment folklore in Britain.

``We can confirm that George Michael has bid successfully
for John Lennon's piano,'' a spokeswoman told Reuters.

She said that Michael, 37, had not taken part personally in
Tuesday's transatlantic auction.

``He decided to do this because the piano was a part of
music history, and because he wanted it to remain in Britain.''

Lennon composed ``Imagine'' on the walnut upright, which
Steinway has authenticated as the one he bought in 1970 for
around 1,000 pounds.

The former Beatle was murdered in New York by Mark David
Chapman on December 8, 1980. Chapman was denied parole earlier
this month.

The sale caps a month of Beatlemania which saw the opening
of a new Lennon museum in Japan and the release of the band's
first autobiography charting the Fab Four's meteoric rise to
fame and fortune.

Two solo albums were released last week to mark what would
have been Lennon's 60th birthday, shortly after Paul McCartney
put together a new Beatles dance record featuring out-takes
from the band's 1960s heyday.

The final price at Tuesday's sale came within a whisker of
auctioneer fleetwoodowen.com's predicted 1.5 million pounds.

Bidding was conducted live from Hard Rock Cafe branches in
both London and New York, as well as via the telephone and
Internet.

Also on offer was Lennon's old Ferrari 330GT, which fetched
110,000 pounds.

But it was the piano that had aficionados drooling.

Film footage from 1971 shows a relaxed Lennon at its keys
composing ``Imagine'' before he turns to his keyboard player to
remark: ``That's the one I like best.''

The piano had been owned by a private collector and had
been on show for most of the year at the Beatles Story Museum
in their home town of Liverpool.

Michael has yet to announce what he will do with his
acquisition, but the museum has offered it a home and full
insurance if the new owner will keep it on display there.