Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

Ford Earnings Fall, Hit by Tire Recall

DEARBORN, Mich. (Reuters) - Ford Motor Co. on Wednesday
said third-quarter operating earnings fell 16.3 percent to $994
million, hurt by the Firestone recall of 6.5 million tires,
mostly on Ford Explorer sport utility vehicles.

It was the first decline in Ford's quarterly operating
earnings in more than four years. The world's No. 2 automaker
said profits would have reached a record high but for the tire
recall.

Ford said earnings per share were 50 cents, down from a
year earlier but in line with analysts' expectations as
compiled by First Call/Thomson Financial. The figure is
adjusted for a share swap during the summer.

For the 1999 third quarter, Dearborn, Mich.-based Ford
(NYSE:F - news) reported earnings of $1.186 billion, or 54 cents per
share, excluding one-time items.

Ford's net income fell to $888 million from $959 million a
year earlier. ``The decrease ... of $71 million is more than
explained by the impact of Firestone's ongoing tire recall,''
the automaker said in a statement. ``Without the Firestone tire
recall, profits would have been a record in the third quarter.''

Ford tried to put the best face possible on the earnings
decline. ``Getting our customers onto good tires has been, and
continues to be, more important than short-term profits,'' Jac
Nasser, Ford president and chief executive officer, said in a
statement.

Firestone, part of Bridgestone Corp (news - web sites). (5108.T) of Japan,
recalled a total of 14 million tires in August because of
safety concerns. Federal regulators on Tuesday raised the U.S.
death toll linked to Firestone tire failures to 119.

Ford's revenues for the third quarter were $40.064 billion,
up from $37.28 billion a year earlier.

The company's worldwide automotive earnings fell to $391
million from $535 million in the 1999 third quarter.

Earnings from its core North American automotive operations
fell $164 million, to $782 million, excluding unusual one-time
items. Costs from the tire recall offset a 5 percent rise in
vehicle sales.

In Europe, where Ford's market share has slipped and the
company has been forced to lay off workers because of excess
capacity, losses rose to $221 million from $156 million a year
earlier, excluding one-time items.

``It looks to me like North America did better than expected
despite the (Firestone) recall and Europe worse,'' said a Wall
Street analyst who asked not to be identified. ``Europe's a
train wreck. They're now going to lose money for the full year,
so that's disappointing.''

Ford shares were down 1/2 at $23-15/16 in morning trade on
the New York Stock Exchange (news - web sites).

In the latest quarter, Ford took a charge of $106 million,
or 6 cents per share, as a result of its acquisition of British
high-end sport utility vehicle manufacturer Land Rover. In the
1999 third quarter it took a charge of $227 million, or 17
cents per share, mostly for costs associated with layoffs.

Losses from South American automotive operations totaled
$64 million in the third quarter, bettering the $86 million
loss in the 1999 third quarter.

Automotive operations in Africa, Asia-Pacific and the
Middle East broke even, compared with a year-earlier profit of
$35 million.

Ford's Ford Credit finance unit had earnings of $386
million in the third quarter, up 22 percent from $317 million a
year earlier.

Ford's 81.5 percent stake in rental car company Hertz Corp.
(NYSE:HRZ - news) contributed earnings of $116 million, up from $113
million a year ago.

Ford's automotive cash and marketable securities totaled
$18.60 billion at the end of the third quarter, down from
$21.74 billion a year earlier. The company distributed $5.7
billion to shareholders as part of the summer share swap. In
August Ford finalized a recapitalization plan, dubbed the Value
Enhancement Plan, under which shareholders swapped stock for a
combination of new shares and cash.

Ford's cross-town rival, General Motors Corp. (NYSE:GM - news), also
had a tough third quarter. Last week the world's No. 1
automaker reported a 5.5 percent fall in quarterly earnings, to
$829 million, due in part to a loss of $181 million from its
European operations.

DaimlerChrysler AG (NYSE:DCX - news) (DCXGn.DE) is scheduled to
announce its quarterly results on Oct. 26.

