Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

Americans Have Sex the Most, Japanese the Least

KUALA LUMPUR, Malaysia (Reuters) - Americans had sex most
often this year, while older teens and young adults in Japan
did it the least, a global survey by a British condom maker
said Tuesday.

Americans were also the quickest to lose their virginity
but it was the French who boasted of having the most sexual
partners, said SSL International, which manufactures Durex
condoms.

``On average, people globally are having sex 96 times a
year,'' said the company in its survey of 18,000 adults aged
between 16 and 25.

``The Americans claim to be enjoying the most sex at 132
times a year followed by the Russians (122), the French (121)
and the Greeks (115).''

The survey said young Japanese made love the least often at
37 times a year while Malaysians did it 62 times a year and the
Chinese 69 times a year.

Most Dutch people said they learned about sex from their
mothers, while the Americans attributed their knowledge to
their fathers.

Most Italians said they were told about sex by their
brothers and sisters while the French gave credit to their bed
partners.

Americans were the earliest to have sex at an average age
of 16.4 years, followed by Brazilians at 16.5 and the French at
16.8.

The French also seemed to have the most sexual partners,
claiming an average of 16.7 each. The Greeks were second with
15 partners each, followed by the Brazilians at 12.5 and
Americans at 11.8.

Indians were the most faithful to their partners, with 82
percent saying they have had sex with just one person.

The survey said 61 percent of those aged 16-20 and 52
percent of those aged 21-24 preferred condoms for
contraception. Thirteen percent of respondents said they used
no form of contraception at all while eight percent said they
used natural methods.

The survey also said that most men thought American stars
Madonna (news - web sites) and Jennifer Lopez were the sexiest female celebrities.

Supermodel Cindy Crawford and actress Demi Moore were tied
for second place. ``Pretty Woman'' star Julia Roberts ranked
third.

``Titanic'' star Kate Winslet and former Spice Girl Geri
Haliwell were the least desirable, getting just two percent of
votes, while tennis ace Steffi Graf was a notch better with
three percent.

