That's right, the sugary pop princess is heading to the typewriter. She and 
her mom, Lynne Spears, are planning to cowrite a Mother's Day parable, to be 
published by May 2001, Inside.com reports. The gift book is expected to be all 
about mothers and daughters, and Mother Spears is expected to make her rounds to 
various publishers next week to pitch the idea. 


The whole "young-singer-writes-parable" idea has been done before. Country 
crooner LeAnn 
Rimes had a similar project in 1997, a Christmas parable titled Holiday 
in Your Heart and published by Doubleday. The book went on to sell some 
115,000 copies in hardcover, and was later turned into a TV-movie. 


We can only guess what motherly anecdotes will figure prominently in Britney 
and Lynne's Mother's Day tale. Perhaps, "You're my daughter, and I won't let you 
wear that on stage"? Or how about, "I know you've sold a gazillion albums, but 
please take your brother with you to the Jive Records party"? 


Whatever the case, this isn't Britney and her mom's first foray into book 
publishing. Last spring, the duo offered fans Britney Spears' Heart to 
Heart, an autobiographical paperback published by Three Rivers Press. 
Industry types estimate the book has sold more than 150,000 copies over the past 
six months. 


Is it any good? Amazon.com reviewers gave the 134-page book a glowing 4.5 out 
of 5 stars. "It will touch the titular red beating thing in just about 
everyone's chest who reads this book," notes one reader, who appears to be 
either joking or really obsessed with Britney Spears. "Sure, it's no 
Death on the Installment Plan, but it's still probably the best book I've 
read in the last 10 years." 


Another reader was a less enthused about Spears the writer, versus Spears the 
singer: "If your fave food groups include cheese, mush and baloney, you just 
found the perfect book." 


Still, the new book proposal will no doubt feed the as-yet-unrelenting 
Britney frenzy, launched by multiplatinum-selling albums ...Baby 
One More Time and Oops!...I 
Did it Again. 


Meanwhile, mom Lynne has been on a writing spree herself these days, 
contributing matriarchal wisdom via "Lynne's Corner" a diary that's updated 
frequently on Spears' official Website, www.britneyspears.com. The updates are 
brimming with sweet parental gems: For instance, ever wonder what the heck 
Britney's mom was thinking when her daughter stripped down to almost nothing at 
the MTV Video 
Music Awards? 


Behold: "When she began, Bryan [Britney's brother] and I were so excited and 
nervous for her," Lynne writes. "She walked down the stairs in her first 
costume, which was a black pant suit. All of a sudden, I saw a vision of my 
daughter I had never before witnessed. She was breathtaking! I was so proud of 
her!" 


She can let it all hang out on stage, but we'll see if Britney and her mom 
can keep from dangling those participles in print.
