Is your skin raw from repeated attempts to scrub yourself out of the shame  spiral brought on by watching "Britney and Kevin: Chaotic"? Well, take comfort,  y'all -- you're not alone.

Critics, apparently unable to handle the truth according to the Federlines,  have delivered an evisceration of the shaky, flaky reality series not seen since  the debut of "Hello, Larry." 

Seems they were unimpressed by Britney's unparalleled talent for making goofy pig  faces and tossing off such bon mots as, "Our sex is so good -- ecstasy, ecstasy,  ecstasy," and, "They look like boobs, but they're not. They're my knees." 

Not even Kevin's deep thoughts on marriage ("I don't believe in it") or the  video evidence that the greasy ex-dancer does, in fact, bathe could win them  over. 

Here are some of the critical lowlights:

Variety: "A self-indulgent, mindless piece of drivel ... a visual  assault of nauseating camera angles, likely to upset even the most desensitized  TV viewer ... It makes Jessica and Nick look like Mensa candidates."

The Washington Post: "There's no danger of anyone ever dumbing it  down. A dumber downer would potentially be lethal. It would have to be buried in  lead for 10,000 years, like nuclear waste ... An execrable mess by absolutely  any standard, though of course these days the idea of standards is just all too  uncool. It was America's crummiest home video."

Entertainment Weekly: "Career suicide by videocam ... The truth is not  only that she's vapid, but that she's self-obsessed to a dangerous degree."

The Hollywood Reporter: "Spears comes across like a party-hearty  college girl with her shaky-cam, finger-up-her-nose, close-up-of-her-pores,  leering video snippets."

The Boston Globe: "It's just a tedious public exercise in  self-importance and striptease."

Television Without Pity: "The show is like an extremely boring car  crash: It sucks and really nothing at all happens in the end, but nevertheless  you can't look away -- the only true entertainment value being the constant and  very real threat that at any minute either of Britney's gigantic bodyguards  might kick the [bleep] out of K. Fed, whom they obviously hate."

Yee-ouch. Viewers seemed to agree with the brutal assessments: "Chaotic"  finished dead last in its time slot.

In addition to hitting a new low for primetime programming this week, Britney  also posted a new Letter of Truth in which she raves about their "amazing trip"  to Las Vegas ("It's like Disney World for adults").

She says she's now "glad to be back home," even if home is her  under-renovation Malibu mansion. "Kevin thinks everyone will work faster if we  stay at the house," Spears writes on her Web site. "All the construction is  really loud in the morning, but I feel he may be right." (And really, is there  anything more soothing to a pregnant woman than being woken up by some gentle  hammering?)

The Kabbalah-loving pop tartlet also reveals she's "thinking of different  ideas for the prayer and meditation room," none of which we're betting involve  its ultimate use -- storage.

Concludes Britney, "Everything is going so well lately -- it literally brings  me to my knees." And no, we're not going anywhere near that one.  