Paging Dr. Cruise. Dr. Tom Cruise -- you're wanted in  obstetrics.  

Yes, it seems the future baby daddy, whose medical background rivals that of  Dr. Howard, Dr. Fine and Dr. Howard from  "The Three Stooges," is closely  monitoring his spawn's development.  

Really, really closely monitoring.  

"I bought a sonogram machine," Cruise reveals to Barbara Walters on her "The  10 Most Fascinating People of 2005" special (via People magazine). "I am gonna  donate it to a hospital when we are done."  

Queries a confused Walters, "Wait, you are going to do your own sonogram?"  

"Yes," laughs Tom (who, it should be noted, did play an M.D. in "Eyes Wide Shut").  

Unfortunately, Babs missed the obvious (glib) follow-up question, namely,  "What on Earth compelled you to spend $15,000 to $200,000 on your own personal  sonogram machine when there are actual doctor's offices out there?"  

Cruise's rep had no comment on the device buy, according to People.  

Tom says he and Katie, who is said to be about five or six months along,  still don't know what they're having.  

"No, I don't. Barbara, I would tell you," assures the toothy actor. "I would  say, 'I know if it's a boy or a girl and I'm not telling you.'"  

When asked what he sees on the sonogram, Cruise replies, "A little baby."  

Also discussed in the sit-down is whether Katie will have a so-called "silent  birth," a Scientology-approved method in which the mom purportedly has to keep  mum during labor.  

"Like anything, you want to be as quiet as possible," explains the L. Ron  Hubbard-loving star. "There have been misinterpretations that the woman can't  make any noise, and that's just not true. It's nutty. No, but just calm and  quiet. I want Katie to be as comfortable as possible. And whatever she's gonna  go through, she's gonna go through. And I'm gonna be there."  

'Cause when you're looking for "calm and quiet," you want the guy who  screamed "I'm in love" while wantonly abusing Oprah's furniture standing right by your side.  

Speaking of his much-dissected declaration, Cruise maintains that he "will  forever be jumping on couches ... all men should celebrate their women."  

But it appears the celebration to take his "magnificent" and "amazing"  fiancée as his third wife is going to wait until after the stork makes its  "quiet and calm" delivery -- quite a change from the couple's warp-speed Eiffel  Tower engagement and lightning fast pregnancy.  

"We are gonna get married next summer or early fall," says the suddenly pokey  Cruise. "We don't have a date set yet."  

The "Dianetics"-devoted duo is currently in Shanghai, where Tom is filming  scenes for "Mission: Impossible III." The "Fascinating People" special airs Nov.  29 on ABC. 