By Allison McDowell EnstromSpecial to MSN Music

As a woman of not-quite-40 trying to hang on to some modicum of coolness or  at least not slip into middle-age oblivion, I still stay plugged in to current  pop music. I'm also a mother of two kids who are with me about 90 percent of the  time. So what I listen to, they listen to ... and vice versa. But right now,  worlds are colliding and it's not pretty. What worlds, you ask? MTV and kids'  music.  

The MTV Video  Music Awards are upon us, which is a spectacle I enjoy. And while I watch  for my favorite artists and songs, my kids know many of them, too. I find myself  walking a fine (and bizarre) line between rocking out with them and feeling a  little uncomfortable at hearing them sing all the words to Lady Gaga's "Poker Face" (Lady Gaga, by the way,  has been nominated in a record 13 categories!). 

Parents who listen to music with their children have been on a quest at some  point to find tunes they can enjoy while keeping the kids happily feeling the  beat, too. My daughter has more than a few CDs of children's music, sung by  children, that include classics along the lines of "Row Row Row Your Boat,"  "Twinkle, Twinkle Little Star," "Old MacDonald Had a Farm," and "Farmer in the  Dell." 

Personally, I didn't think those songs were all that great when I was a kid!  They're even worse now that I have to hear them (ad nauseum) sung by what sounds  like a classroom full of first-graders. It's also a genre that works for only so  long, and we've sort of grown out of it. Consequently, I'm always on the lookout  for kids' music that's slightly more compatible with my own taste. That's when I  was willing to compromise and try some of the Kidz Bop CDs. 

The music franchise has recently released Kidz Bop 18. Yes, 18. It's  the newest sibling to the first 17 albums, along with Kidz Bop Gold, More Gold,  Country, Halloween, Christmas and others. These guys crank out more productions  than the Duggar family! But, be warned, the Duggar family is decidedly more  wholesome. 

The extensive Kidz Bop website says it's proud to be "the number one music  brand for children ages 5-12." They've spent the last 10 years doing remakes of  current radio hits with child singers. That way, parents can sing along to the  pop songs we like with the idea that the content has been modified to be  age-appropriate for the kids. But, on closer inspection, not so much. There is  plenty of catchy music out there with words or themes that are totally  inappropriate for anyone under 18. A small detail Kidz Bop has apparently  overlooked. 

Take the song "California Gurls" by Katy Perry and Snoop Dogg. Generally, I wouldn't consider either  of those artists particularly family-friendly. But Kidz Bop does. It has its  bleached-out version of the hit, changing phrases like "sippin' gin and juice"  to "sippin' on my juice." And "the boys/break their necks/tryin' to creep a  little sneak peek at us'" to "boys... tryin' to act a little crazy." Fully  eliminated are the Snoop Dogg riffs for obvious reasons. As a side note, the  video, nominated for Best Female Video and Best Pop Video, is literally  eye candy, but is not at all appropriate for kids. 

Then there's "Telephone" by Lady Gaga, nominated for Video of the Year and  Best Collaboration (featuring Beyoncé). It's not really that objectionable when  you just listen to it on the radio. Kidz Bop does clean up the few questionable  lines, swapping "'cause I'm out in the club and sippin' that bubb'" to "I'm out  in the club and I'm eatin' that grub." The real problem might come when your kid  loves it and wants to get online to see the video. It would be thoroughly  shocking ... to both kid and parent. I'm not sure if videos are rated like  television and movies, but this one is definitely explicit, one to keep the kids  away from. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)