 When you're in the site and you want to create or view your personal newspaper, click on me -- Hunter -- in the toolbar (watch the nose). You'll log in your user name and password, and go to the Hunter home page.				

 Now, if I haven't brought you a paper before, you'll have to tell me what your interests are. Do this by clicking on the Change Profile button on the bottom of the page. If you've created a profile before, you already know what's coming, so jump ahead.				

 The change profile page looks pretty heavy, but it's not so bad. Hey, you get to click boxes and that's always fun. You've got a couple ways to pick your topics (pre-searched topics or topics you define yourself), but remember that you shouldn't pick more than ten total or I won't be able to fit the paper in my mouth.				

 The first way to pick topics is from The Times' pre-defined topics. There are about 60 subjects that they think you might be interested in, from Wall Street to Obituaries. Simply click the box and I'll bring you stories from that topic.		     The pre-defined topics probably won't change much, but if you'd like to suggest one, please email me at hunter@latimes.com.				

 You can also name and define your own topics. The name is what shows up on your personal page, and is what you click on to tell me to search. So, fill in the form like this:				Name of Topic    Search Words for Topic      		     		You can define your own topic in order to search for stories in broader areas -- for issues or concepts. For example, searching for stories that include the word "Clinton" will bring you everything from biographies to bills. By including "and Whitewater" you'll be able to limit the number of stories that I fetch, and I'll be more accurate with what I bring you.				

 If you've gotten to the bottom of the Change Profile screen and you decide not to make those changes, hit the "Undo Changes" button to keep the changes from being saved. Your old profile will still be in effect.				

 Completing your profile will take you back to the Hunter home page. I'll have your personal paper waiting! The topics will appear as hypertext links (i.e.: Clinton) and clicking on them will bring up the stories in your paper.				