Dr. West's Topanga house call

Select purpose of Loan:

1 yr. Adj. Rate - COFI

10/1 yr. Adj. - Jumbo

Discount point range:

Estimated loan amount:

By Ruth Ryon, Times Staff Writer


        

        Rick Schroder and his wife, Andrea, have purchased a 21-acre ranch in Topanga for about $4.2 million. The couple recently listed their nearly 15,000-acre Mesa Mood Ranch in Colorado at $29 million.
 The actor-writer-director, 35, made his home on the range near Grand Junction, Colo., for 15 years, but he and his family aren't completely cutting ties. They plan to maintain a 500-acre ranch they own there along with a three-bedroom, 3,000-square-foot log cabin that Schroder built himself.
 The Schroders decided to establish a home in the L.A. area, where he lived as a child while starring in the '80s sitcom "Silver Spoons," because he has "increasing professional activities in Los Angeles," said Gary Harryman of Pritchett-Rapf & Associates, who represented both sides of the transaction.
 Schroder plays Dr. Dylan West in the Lifetime series "Strong Medicine." He appeared as a regular for several years on "NYPD Blue" and costarred with Robert Duvall in the miniseries "Lonesome Dove." Schroder wrote and directed the 2004 movie "Black Cloud," starring Tim McGraw, and directed and starred in the music video "Whiskey Lullaby," performed by Brad Paisley and Alison Krauss.
 The Schroders also bought the Topanga home because it's large enough for their family of four children, three dogs and a number of chickens, rabbits and lizards. The property, surrounded by parkland with many trails, is zoned for horses and has a playhouse, a pool and an orchard bearing avocados, apricots, oranges and pears.
 The compound has a five-bedroom, 4,600-square-foot main house and a two-bedroom, 1,000-square-foot guesthouse. The main house has a library. The home was built in 1993.
 Schroder also plans to sell a 7,000-square-foot home he owns in Scottsdale, Ariz. It's on the market at $4.5 million with Sandra Wilken Luxury Homes in Scottsdale. Mesa Mood Ranch, with its forests, lakes and streams, is listed with Ranch Marketing Associates, an affiliate of Mossler, Deasy & Doe of Beverly Hills.Yahoo chief
 ends his search Terry Semel, the chairman of Yahoo and former co-chairman of Warner Bros., and his wife, Jane, have purchased a home in Beverly Hills for about $8.5 million.
 The home was built in 1987 according to a design by architect Robert Offenhauser. Interiors were decorated by Michael Smith, who has worked for clients including Steven Spielberg and Kate Capshaw.
 The gated contemporary, on nearly an acre, has four bedrooms and seven bathrooms in 8,800 square feet. The home also has a breakfast area, a media room and a gym. There is a pool with a spa and a guesthouse on the grounds.
 Semel, 62, is a native of Brooklyn who began his career as an accountant with an enthusiasm for films. He entered the entertainment industry as a branch manager for Warner Bros. in 1966, working in New York, Cleveland and Los Angeles. He became president of Warner Bros. in 1982. In 1994, he and Robert Daly became co-chairmen.
 During their tenure, Warner Bros. released such movies as "Father's Day" (1997), starring Robin Williams and Billy Crystal. Semel and Daly announced that they would step down in 1999. Semel was appointed chairman of Yahoo in 2001.
 Jonas Heller at Westside Estate Agency, Beverly Hills, represented the buyers. Heller wasn't available to comment.Hit-maker in a Westside groove Guy Oseary, who joined Madonna in her upstart label known as Maverick Records when he was 17 and became a partner in the company by the time he was 23, has purchased a Beverly Hills-area home for close to $7 million.
 The sellers were Gary Smith, a partner in the TV production company Smith-Hemion, and his wife, Maxine, an interior designer.
 The house, built in the late '80s, is on a little more than an acre and has six bedrooms and eight bathrooms in 10,000-plus square feet. The home has an open floor plan with a family room, study, a kitchen with a fireplace, gym with a sauna, and a theater. The grounds have a tennis court, pool, spa, waterfall and rolling lawns.
 Oseary, now in his early 30s, was only 16 when he became a music manager, but he delivered some of Maverick's biggest early hits. Among them was Canadian singer Alanis Morissette's recording of "Jagged Little Pill," which sold more than 28 million copies worldwide. He began Maverick's film division in 2002.
 Kurt Rappaport of Westside Estate Agency represented Oseary in buying his new home; Drew Mandile and Brooke Knapp of Sotheby's International Realty and Linda May of Coldwell Banker shared the listing, according to the Multiple Listing Service.A steel driveway for 007's car Reagan Silber, a lawyer who became an investor in venture capital and wireless communications before he formed a talent-management firm that represented such stars as Renée Zellweger, has put his Bel-Air home on the market at slightly under $27 million.
 Silber, who has been working on launching a network dedicated to gaming, has hosted monthly poker games at this home, drawing such players as actors Tobey Maguire and Leonardo DiCaprio. Silber now also produces movies, including this year's "Lonesome Jim," starring Liv Tyler. It was screened at the Sundance Film Festival in January.
 Silber completely remodeled his Bel-Air home, built in the '50s, and installed such unusual features as a stainless steel driveway, a white terrazzo bar next to an 80-foot lap pool, a circular stairway with a glass pyramid, a glass cube as an entry, and walls lacquered kelly green.
 The 10,000-plus-square-foot house was designed by South African-born Charles Allem in a style Allem describes as "a James Bond variety." The home has four bedrooms, eight bathrooms, a media room, a two-story study, gardens, an outdoor living room and city-to-ocean views. There is also a gym with green suede walls and Louis Vuitton leather benches.
 Kurt Rappaport of Westside Estate Agency, Beverly Hills, has the listing.Where Headfridge can simply chill The Grammy-nominated producer-composer Tim Ramenofsky, who also goes by the name "Headfridge," has purchased a Tarzana home for about $600,000.
 The three-bedroom, 1,485-square-foot house, built in 1951, has been remodeled and has hardwood floors, a new kitchen and a master bedroom suite.
 Ramenofsky produced rap-artist Afroman's single "Because I Got High" and released it on T-Bones Records, which Ramenofsky founded. The song was No. 1 in 60 countries and sold 4 million copies. In 2002, it was nominated for a Grammy in the best rap performance category.
 Since then, Ramenofsky has gone on to compose music for film and TV for T-Bones under a number of names.
 Owen Salkin of Coldwell Banker, Sunset, represented Ramenofsky in buying.To see previous columns on celebrity transactions, visit latimes.com/hotproperty.


If you want other stories on this topic, search the Archives at latimes.com/archives.Article licensing and reprint options