With polls showing continuing discontent with the Obama administration, the White House called on former President Bill Clinton, who will meet with the president and business leaders on Wednesday.

The White House announced Clinton’s attendance just hours before the afternoon meeting and said the former president will join the discussion on ways to create jobs in the private sector. The Clinton appearance comes after top administration officials in recent weeks have argued that Obama has helped the business sector weather a tough recession.

As part of its pro-economy offensive in this midterm election year when Republicans see economic issues as a wedge to break the Democrats’ control of congress, the administration on Wednesday announced its latest data on the positive effects of the Recovery Act. 

The quarterly report of the Council of Economic Advisers finds that the Recovery Act “is responsible for 2.5 million to 3.6 million – or about 3 million – jobs and that for every government dollar invested in Recovery Act programs designed to leverage outside capital, private companies and others are co-investing with nearly three times as much outside investment,” Vice President Joe Biden and council chairwoman Christinia Romer announced.

The latest job creation numbers also come as the Chamber of Commerce urged the Obama administration to curb government regulations and to continue the Bush tax cuts.

 “What everybody is living under is a great deal of uncertainty because of all the new legislation, the new taxes and new regulation,” Tom Donohue, the group‘s president, told Bloomberg Television. The Chamber believes the prospect of pending health, financial, environmental and other regulations is stifling business spending and curtailing the economic recovery, Donohue said in the interview.

 “The congressional leadership and the administration took their eyes off the ball” after working with business in early 2009 to avert a depression, the Chamber said in the letter to Obama. “They vilified industries while embarking on an ill-advised course of government expansion, major tax increases, massive deficits and job-destroying regulations.”

Those complaints closely track the GOP platform for this election year. But, the Obama administration has repeatedly insisted that it is not anti-business. 

Obama, in recent appearances, has often said that he views the private sector as the real engine of growth in the economy and a needed asset if the country is to come out of the recession that the president pointedly reminds listeners he inherited from a GOP administration.

Obama has also called for more jobs by expanding foreign trade and for creating jobs in the alternative energy sector. His aides, including Valerie Jarrett and Rahm Emanuel, have publicly solicited advice from some business leaders.

Still, polls show Americans increasingly unhappy with Obama’s performance. The latest numbers released on Wednesday by Public Policy Polling, show that 52% disapprove of Obama’s overall job performance while 45% approve.

Interestingly, the same poll shows that voters say they are slightly more likely to listen to an endorsement by former President Clinton than by Obama, which may help explain what is expected to be Clinton’s growing presence in some midterm elections. 

Clinton campaigned strongly for Sen. Blanche Lincoln (D-Ark.) who surprisingly won her state's primary race but still faces a tough reelection drive in November. Clinton is also likely to campaign for other candidates, principally in his home region of the South.