Here's this week's roundup of recalls announced by the Food and Drug Administration and the Consumer Product Safety Commission:

Frozen reptile feed (mice, rats and chicks) is being recalled because it could potentially be contaminated with salmonella, the FDA announced.

Georgia company Mice Direct is recalling the critters, which were distributed in all states except Hawaii through pet stores and by mail order and direct delivery.

Human illnesses that may be related to the frozen reptile feed have been reported in 17 states. The recalled product should not be fed to animals, even after heating in a microwave, because the heating may not be adequate to kill salmonella, the FDA said.

Consumers who purchased reptile feed from Mice Direct are urged to contact the company by telephone at (888) 747-0736 or by e-mail at sales@micedirect.com for instructions concerning the recall and for credits toward replacement of unused product.

The Consumer Product Safety Commission announced a voluntary recall of 30,000 Nap Nanny portable baby recliners because of entrapment, suffocation and risk of falling. The recall was issued in cooperation with Baby Matters of Berwyn, Pa.  

The agency said it was investigating a report of a 4-month-old girl from Michigan who died in a Nap Nanny that was being used in a crib. According to preliminary reports, the infant was in her harness and found hanging over the side of the product, caught between the Nap Nanny and the crib bumper. 

CPSC and Baby Matters are aware of one other incident in which an infant became trapped when the Nap Nanny was used in a crib, contrary to the product instructions. In that incident, the infant fell over the side of the Nap Nanny, despite being harnessed in, and was caught between the baby recliner and the side of the crib. The infant sustained a cut to the forehead.

CPSC and the firm have received 22 reports of infants, primarily younger than 5 months old, hanging or falling out over the side of the Nap Nanny despite most of the infants being placed in the harness. One infant received a bruise as a result of hanging over the side of the product.

Infants can partly fall or hang over the side of the Nap Nanny even while the harness is in use. This situation can be worse if the Velcro straps inside the Nap Nanny cover are not properly attached to the D-rings on the foam, or if consumers are using the first-generation model Nap Nanny that was sold without D-rings.

In addition, if the Nap Nanny is placed inside a crib, play yard or other confined area -- which is not recommended -- the infant can fall or hang over of the side of the Nap Nanny and become trapped between the crib side and the Nap Nanny and suffocate.

Likewise, if the Nap Nanny is placed on a table, counter top, or other elevated surface and a child falls over the side, there is a risk of serious head injury. Consumers should always use the Nap Nanny on the floor away from any other products.

The Nap Nanny is a portable recliner designed for sleeping, resting and playing. The first-generation model  can be identified by the absence of D-rings in the foam base. In second-generation models, the harness system has D-rings in the foam base and Velcro straps inside the fitted fabric cover.

The recalled Nap Nannys were sold at toy and children's retail stores nationwide and online, including at www.napnanny.com, from January 2009 through July 2010 for about $130. They were manufactured in the United States and China.

Consumers with first-generation Nap Nanny models should stop using the recalled baby recliners immediately and contact the firm to receive an $80 coupon toward the purchase of a new Nap Nanny with free shipping. 

Consumers with a second-generation Nap Nanny model should immediately stop using the product until they are able to visit the firm's website to obtain new product instructions and warnings. 

Consumers can also view an instructional video to help ensure the harness is properly fastened. For more information, contact Baby Matters toll-free at (888)240-4282 or visit its website at www.napnanny.com/recall. 

The CPSC and Health Canada announced a voluntary recall of about 7,000 youth and adult Brine VIP lacrosse gloves because of a violation of lead paint standards.  

The gloves were made by Brine, a division of Warrior Sports Inc. The screen printing ink used on the silver triad logo on the back of the glove contains excessive levels of lead, violating the federal lead paint standard.

Most of the gloves were sold in the United States, with about 30 sold in Canada. They were sold at sporting goods stores nationwide between July 2009 and June 2010 for about $50. They were made in Vietnam.

The recall involves black and white Brine VIP lacrosse gloves sold in three sizes: 10, 12 and 13 inches. No accidents or injuries were reported.

For additional information, contact Brine at (888) 542-8834 or visit its website at www.brine.com/recall. 

Photos from the Consumer Product Safety Commission.