The city of Bell,  one of the poorest cities in Los Angeles County, pays its top 
officials some of the highest salaries in the United States, including nearly 
$800,000 a year for its city manager, according to documents reviewed 
by The Times and published in today's front-page story "Is a city manager worth $800,000?".

Predictably, the readers have come out in droves to complain about the findings. Nearly 200 people have commented so far, making it the most lively discussion today on LATimes.com. But surprisingly, Bell received many anonymous comments of support. Here are some examples:

So Cal Friend said: Given all the new programs, jobs, services, and investments Bell has 
been able to make in this tough economy, these high salaries appear to 
be well worth it. Not to mention the fact that averaged out over 17 
years of service the city manager made 220 K and pulled the city out of 
the brink of bankruptcy, as one of his first accomplishments. I mean, 
Bell has been doing so well that cities like Maywood are asking it to 
take on their services.

Cynthia wrote: None of these people are worth 800k per year let alone 100k. Give me a 
break. The city could be using all of that money instead for other 
needed resources. I hope the investigation prompted by LA county forces 
them to reduce all of their salaries. 800k is absurd! 

The Great Unknown said: What is the price of success?  Bell is a clear standout in that area of 
LA.  If you have ever driven down the main street, the transition from 
surrounding cities, such as Maywood, is dramatic.  Regardless, in my 
opinion though, they are paid far, far, too much.

hc23hc wrote: Admit it. That's a job we'd all like to have.

latimes90703 said: Thank you, LA Times, for exposing the corruptions - Mayor Villaraigosa's
 acceptance of all the freebies, LA County official's abuse of power in 
nepotism, and now the unbelievable pay of Bell's city officials. 

So what's your take? Shouldn't a city be allowed to pay its managers whatever it deems reasonable? Wouldn't the citizens of that city simply vote out officials who plunder the tax base if they found the finances to be out of control? What are your feelings about Bell? Has it managed itself better than its neighboring cities? Share your thoughts in the comments below.

Photo: The Bell City Hall building is photographed on July 14. Credit: Liz O. Baylen /
 Los Angeles Times 