IT'S TIME FOR ACT II IN THE INTERNET REVOLUTION. THE FIRST ACT BELONGED TO DOT-COMS with big visions and small bank accounts. Now the stage will be taken by big companies that move their factories, warehouses and customers onto the Web. Who are the executives winning this competition? We portray 12 of them here, in our third annual round-up of digital innovators. Together the companies these executives lead employ almost 1 million people and have more than  $400 billion in revenues. They aren't playing for paper options or the fast flip. Their drive is to serve customers, eliminate inefficiency and spark new growth. They have bet big on the Internet, and they already are making it pay off. The stock market has yet to lavish its richest rewards on traditional firms. But make no mistake, says GE's Jack Welch:  "The productivity and [market] share gains of the Old Economy companies dwarf the growth of the New Economy companies."


Make the Web Revolution Real

   Jack Welch was late to the Internet. "I was afraid of it, because I couldn't type," he says. That changed 18 months ago after he spent a weekend at the keyboard. Neither General Electric nor the Net has been the same since.


   By any measure--sales growth, productivity, gross margins--Welch was a winner before the Internet was invented. The Web will make his firm all the more efficient. Welch predicts gleefully:  The big, old guys are going to beat the daylights out of the pure-play dot-commers. "Old companies thought this was Nobel Prize-type work," Welch says. "This is not rocket science. It's just like breathing."


   His logic is quantitative. Dot-coms start with no revenue and lots of expenses for ads, warehouses and more. "So their break-even is--where? Who knows? The model is totally revenue-dependent," Welch says.


   Contrast that with the "big, old guy." The existing business already has sales and expenses. Digitize it and costs fall. Sales climb. "Instantly [the old guy] gets to break even. Then the margins just pour in!" Welch says. Inside GE auction transactions amounted to  $200 million in 1999 and will reach  $5 billion this year. Last year transactions cost GE  $50 apiece; online the cost is  $5. 


   Welch didn't even try to justify the expenses as GE started down the Internet path. "It was just 'Jump!'" he recalls. He had watched his family and colleagues do all their Christmas shopping online. At a meeting in March 1999 Welch issued a challenge to GE's more than 20 big businesses. "Destroyyourbusiness.com" became the GE battle cry--reinvent your business before some upstart does it for you.


   Initially GE's Internet strategy followed the patterns established by the dot-coms. By last summer many of GE's leading businesses, such as its power systems group and appliances, were doing online transactions. Welch directed the top 600 managers to find an internal "Internet mentor," typically a younger colleague who tutored them in Web behavior. Many of GE's businesses even tried 
setting up independent "e-biz" units, complete with beer parties.


   In retrospect, separate e-biz groups weren't right for GE, Welch says. Most have since been reabsorbed into GE's mainstream businesses. "It got everyone's attention," he says, "but the Internet is all about 'growyourbusiness.com,' not about destruction. In the end it's everyone's job." 


   Putting online the unglamorous tasks of internal operations saves money, provides faster answers for customers and partners and offers more interesting assignments for employees. Customers of GE's plastics group now use the Web to track orders, sometimes right to the location of a delivery van, instantly getting details that once took a dozen phone calls.


   Then comes commerce. Welch doesn't worry about cannibalizing existing GE businesses. "Channel conflicts and all these other issues are here. You can't just hope they'll go away. You have to pounce on them." He adds:  "There's no such thing as an 'old economy' and a 'new economy.' Commerce is the same as it was 500 years ago. People sell and people buy--whether it's from a wagon or the Internet." 


   When John Chambers joined Cisco in 1991 as head of worldwide sales, he realized that the company would not grow quickly unless it dramatically improved its customer service. To do it right, he figured he needed to hire about 2,000 people. The problem:  That was all the hiring allotted for the entire company for the next 18 months.


   Although the Net was still a research tool, Chambers put his faith in technology. It has become Cisco's growth hormone. In the five years since Chambers became chief executive, Cisco's annual sales have grown from  $1.2 billion to an estimated  $20 billion in fiscal 2000. Some call him prescient. Chambers is more blunt:  "It was about survival," he says in his West Virginia twang. "I had no choice, in my opinion."


   Cisco sells networking equipment. But fueling the company's tremendous growth has been the vision it paints of how networks can transform a customer's business--and Cisco itself provides the best example. In 1991 Cisco was spending a mere $1 million, or 0.5% of revenues, on information technology. "Most of our directors felt IT was an overhead function," Chambers says. He disagreed. Chambers 
believed information technology could help his company do things that competitors could not. And Cisco would reap the biggest payoffs, he contended, if it used technology to change its practices before competitors did.


   Customer service was on the top of his list. Chambers also looked for other groups that could benefit from going online--and were open to trying a new approach. "Engineering and sales were my most independent and headstrong groups," he recalls. "If I had led with them, I might not have been successful."


   Instead Chambers started pushing other divisions, namely manufacturing, customer ordering and finance, to network their operations more fully. Cisco now handles 80% of the monthly 4 million customer requests for information via the Web, saving the company an estimated  $250 million a year. Some 87% of sales are handled via the Web. 