The sun never sets on Richard Branson's empire. 
Today the Virgin logo is emblazoned on hundreds of products--from airplanes to condoms to financial services. Can a famous brand survive such promiscuity? 
				
				
						


	

Richard Branson, the founder of Virgin Group, is easily seduced. Take the small maker of flame-retardant spray who in 1994 appealed to the British billionaire for money. Some might mistake the kooky product demonstration for a late-night TV infomercial, but Branson was bedazzled. "When a guy came around and sprayed the solution on my Kleenex and then couldn't light it with a blowtorch, I was sold," recalls Branson. He immediately bought in, eventually increasing his stake to  $1.5 million for 50% of Phoenix Fire Inhibitor.

   The partnership has since gone up in smoke, and with it Branson's pocket change. He's hardly any wiser. Virgin reusable rockets? Tempted to invest. Virgin beverages, combining ginseng, caffeine and vodka? His son, Sam, is trying to convince him that they will sell. A Virgin Las Vegas hotel and casino attached to an airplane tarmac? "My biggest weakness in life is that I can't say no," says Branson, 49. Then he smiles one of his smiles.

   He is a classic throw-it-against-the-wall guy, slapping Virgin's scarlet logo on hundreds of products. His latest fancy:  an online car dealership, launched in May. And there's more, lots more, on the way. This summer he plans to roll out a wine label, a utility company and an online brokerage.

   What's Virginal about all these enterprises? That's become impossible to define. Once upon a time Branson's products and services seemed to be an extension of his brash young persona--hip, fun stuff at a fair price. Bursting from a buttoned-down nation, Branson brought a spirit of rebellious adventure to making money. Virgin Records released the Sex Pistols' irreverent hit "God Save the Queen," which bashed the Royals, was banned by BBC radio--and hit No. 2 on the charts. Virgin Atlantic set a new standard in air travel, offering manicures, massages and limo rides to the airport for first-class passengers and giving economy travelers seat-back entertainment systems with a choice of movies and videogames.

   Today the self-anointed consumers' champion has too many disparate causes to support. How do you connect the dots between bridal gowns and financial services? Yet he refuses to be hemmed in. Indeed, during a recent interview  in London, he handed over the notebook--red, of course--in which he  jots down business ideas. Among them:   a pharmaceuticals company, a dating service and a clothing line for  babies.

   Say what you will, Branson's sometimes quixotic business quests have made him a lot of money--his net worth is  $3.3 billion. And he seems not to worry that some of his far-flung ventures defy gravity, if not sanity. Perhaps that's because Branson's empire is set up to accommodate an infinite number of Virginisms (see "Sir Richard's Realm: A Guide to the Far-Flung Empire"). His conglomerate is a chaotic web of mostly private companies--dominated by Virgin Atlantic, with  $1.7 billion in sales--with combined estimated revenues of  $5 billion. How many companies? Branson hazards a guess. "Maybe 250?" he says. (One of his right-hand men says it's more like 150.)