
March 01, 2000




OmniSky Could Become The AOL Of The Skies

By Om Malik


NEW YORK. 5:00 AM EST-Patrick McVeigh, the 47-year-old chief executive of OmniSky, is a firm believer in the
wireless Internet. For him, getting Internet access anytime, anywhere is the wave of the
future. 



 More news from... 
Forbes.com

	
Microsoft, AOL Become Privacy Gatekeepers

	
	
Has PurchasePro Bitten Off More Than It Can Chew? 

	
	
Shifts in Wireless Businesses Offer Opportunities for Investors

	

Complete headlines...  



Newswires
	

U.S. Stocks Firmer In Late Morning

	

U.S. Stocks Gain At Open, Nasdaq Led By Biotech

	

Wall Street To Take Opening Cue From Jobs Data

	

Complete headlines...  




Message boards
	
 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:


 
Go!
	


So sure was he that in June 1999 he quit his job as vice president of worldwide sales
and business development at 3Com's Palm Computing unit and started Palo Alto, Calif.-based
OmniSky.



NEW YORK. 5:00 AM EST-Patrick McVeigh, the 47-year-old chief executive of OmniSky, is a firm believer in the
wireless Internet. For him, getting Internet access anytime, anywhere is the wave of the
future. 

 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

"We want to be a wireless AOL that is easy to use and has a user experience that
is unmatched," says McVeigh, who spent three-and-a-half years preaching the word of
Palm to everyone from consumers to large international telephone companies. 

"A large number of foreign telcos were looking for a mobile data platform, and it
was clear that there was an opportunity to work with the carriers," says McVeigh.
Telecommunication companies wanted to sell time on their data networks and did not want to
deal with the applications or manage them. For McVeigh, it was just the right opportunity.

He convinced 3Com (nasdaq: COMS) to
invest $7.5 million in OmniSky in exchange for 28% of the company and smooth-talked Aether
Systems (nasdaq: AETH) into
giving him key technology and money in return for a 33% stake. The result is a wireless
Internet service provider that’s as easy to use as AOL.

OmniSky's service is still in beta testing and currently works only on the Palm V
device coupled with a special Novatel Wireless modem. However, McVeigh promised that by
fall, his company would offer its wireless access on cellular phones, pagers, Symbian
devices and yes, even Microsoft’s Windows CE devices.

The company will start offering its services in April. "We had to start somewhere,
and since Palm has the largest install base [about 4 million customers] we thought this
was a great starting point," says McVeigh. 

 For $50 a month, customers get as much wireless access as their hearts desire,
boasts McVeigh. Although the Palm V and Novatel Wireless’ Minstrel V modem when
combined are twice as thick as the slim Palm V, the weight is still manageable at less
than 9 oz. The modem can also send faxes and runs at 19.2 Kbps. 

Using OmniSky service, consumers can access Web-based content either through Web
"clipping services" for handhelds, like those Palm.net provides, or through the
free AvantGo channels optimized for organizers. You can log on to six POP-3 e-mail
accounts from the device or check all your OmniSky e-mail from a regular Web browser via
Hotmail. 

Given the price and access to more content and better e-mail features, the OmniSky
service handsomely trumps the Palm.net service, which charges per kilobyte and can be used
only for the $599 Palm VII device. In order to use the Palm VII’s wireless features,
one must pay a $9.95 to $24.95 monthly subscription fee to Palm Computing’s
proprietary wireless network.

The cheaper plan is good for 50 kilobytes of data, which is around 150 screens, while
the more expensive plan gets you 150 kilobytes of data--treble the number of screens. One
kilobyte is around 1,000 characters, so if you go over the limit you end up paying 30
cents a kilobyte. And these add up real fast. 

"There are limitations as far as the bandwidth is concerned, so what we have to do
is come up with a great user experience," says McVeigh. "We understand from four
years at Palm what the essence of mobile data is. The turnkey nature of the product is
going to differentiate us from others." 

Analysts are suitably impressed with the product. "OmniSky has set the bar in the
areas of wireless portal business," says Andrew Seybold, publisher of the newsletter Andrew
Seybold’s Outlook. "OmniSky puts the heat on the other wireless portals and
wireless solution vendors."

The ease of use is going to come in the fast-growing market for wireless data services.
San Jose, Calif.-based research company Dataquest predicts that by 2003 there will be 36
million U.S. wireless data subscribers, up from 3 million in 1998.

Of course, the sheer size of the market is going to attract a lot of competition.
Palm.net and Go America are actively competing for wireless-access dollars. Research In
Motion (nasdaq: RIMM),
American Mobile and others are also looking at this market with greedy eyes.

But if McVeigh can deliver on his promise that OmniSky will be as easy to use as AOL,
then his little wireless ISP might zoom into the stratosphere. 