

NEW YORK. 1:45 PM EDT-A new regulatory approval for an old breast cancer drug is good both for drugmaker AstraZeneca
and genetic testmaker Myriad Genetics. 


 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

On June 30, the U.S. Food and Drug Administration approved tamoxifen for use in
women who have breast cancer that has not spread outside the milk ducts of the breast. 

This kind of cancer is relatively easy to treat, but these women are at increased risk
to develop more serious forms of breast cancer that are likely to spread to other
parts of the body and become lethal.

The approval opens a market of 40,000 or so such women to London-based pharmaceutical
company AstraZeneca (nyse: AZN), which has
the exclusive right to market the drug in the U.S. AstraZeneca already sells the drug to
hundreds of thousands of women at risk of developing breast cancer. 

More than 180,000 women develop invasive breast cancer each year in the U.S. alone.
Tamoxifen has been used for more than a decade to prevent tumors from forming in the
breasts of women at risk for the disease and for two decades to treat women who already
have tumors.

The drug is also important to the marketing strategy of Salt Lake City-based Myriad
Genetics (nasdaq: MYGN),
a company that makes the only test for genes that can cause both breast and ovarian
cancer. The existence of a drug that prevents tumors from forming is a major incentive for
women to find out if they have such a gene. Without such a protective drug, women who have
the gene can either watch and wait or have their breasts removed as a preventive measure.

"Most women with hereditary risk would like an alternative to prophylactic
mastectomy," says Tom Frank, Myriad's medical director and vice president of
medical services.

Paradoxically, the existence of such genetic testing may be bad for AstraZeneca. It
actually decreases AstraZeneca's market size. Not all the women who have a family history of
breast cancer wind up carrying a gene that causes the disease. Genetic testing
means more women who may feel comfortable not taking the drug. It is almost as if Myriad
were a tapeworm eating part of AstraZeneca's market.

Other drugs are being studied for their promise in preventing breast cancer, including
a Vitamin A-derivative called fenretinide and the antiosteoporosis drug raloxifene, sold
by Eli Lilly (nyse: LLY) under the
brand name Evista. 

Craig Jordan, director of the Lyn Sage Center at Northwestern University, found
when he was working at the University of Leeds in England that tamoxifen is useful in
treating breast cancer. "This has been my life's work," he says.

Tamoxifen keeps cells from using estrogen, so it can keep most kinds of breast cancer
from growing. It also keeps new tumors from forming by preventing them from using existing
estrogen as kindling. As a preventive measure, it has proved astoundingly effective.

"We've known for a hundred years that estrogen made by a woman's ovaries is a fuel
for the fire of breast cancer. If something goes wrong in the breast, causing breast
cancer, estrogen keeps the malignant cells in the breast growing and growing," Jordan
says

But tamoxifen can cause cancer of the lining of the uterus in post-menopausal women.
Jordan says that women at risk for breast cancer should still take the drug because those
women are four times more likely to develop breast cancer than they are to develop the
uterine cancer. 

"It has been estimated that 350,000 women are alive today because of
tamoxifen," Jordan says.