Check Point's Future Looks Secure

Consumers don't seem to be worrying much about Internet security anymore. Plug in your credit card number, click the mouse and two days later your book arrives in the mail. But it's a different story for corporations that want to do business online but don't want their networks exposed in the process.


 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

And that pretty much explains the success of Check Point Software Technologies (nasdaq: 
CHKP). The explosion of e-commerce has pulled it along like a powerboat towing a skier who can't wait for the next big jump. Check Point's stock has soared more than 1,000% in the past two years to its current level of $210.56, and last week the company announced its second 2-for-1 stock split in the past six months.



Founded in 1993 in Israel and now based both there and in Redwood City, Calif., Check Point was the first company to offer easily installable software designed to place a firewall between a corporate network and the Internet. It has since added other products, including virtual private networking (VPN) software that lets workers log on to corporate networks while at home or on the road. 



If Check Point has been good for the Internet, the Net has returned the favor. Since the company went public in 1996, its annual revenue has soared from $32 million to $220 million, with net income rising from $15.2 million to $95.8 million. And after the first quarter of 2000, when earnings soared 77% and revenue shot up 79%, company officials said they wouldn't be surprised if both the top and bottom lines grew by 50% for the entire year.



"They're firing on all cylinders," says analyst Kama Krisha of Ryan Beck and Southeast Research. "They've created both a mind share and a market share in their sector."



Check Point's ascent up the mountain has not been without some slips and near falls. In the spring of 1998, Microsoft's (nasdaq: 
MSFT) Steve Ballmer said during a visit to Israel that Check Point had two choices: to cooperate with the software giant or to compete against it. Investors took that as a serious threat, and Check Point's shares fell from $41 to $30 in a matter of days. Ballmer subsequently recanted, and the two companies announced an agreement to cooperate on Windows NT products.



But the seed of doubt had been planted, and for the rest of 1998 Wall Street remained jittery about whether Check Point could withstand expected competition from Microsoft and networking giant Cisco Systems (nasdaq: 
CSCO). Check Point's stock kept going south, hitting a low of $5 and change in late autumn.



At the same time, Check Point had another problem. Gil Shwed, the 31-year-old Israeli computer nerd who co-founded the company and became its chief executive, was trying to run it from the Tel Aviv suburb of Ramat Gan. But that left a leadership void at the quickly growing U.S. end of the operation. 







