JUST EIGHT YEARS AGO A WEEDY 13-YEAR-OLD named Kobe Bryant came to America. Born in Philadelphia, he had lived most of his life in Italy, where his father played professional basketball. So when he returned to the U.S., his English was bad--he was especially befuddled by street slang. But he had a skill city kids understood. "Basketball was the common denominator," he recalls. "On the court, I could communicate."

      Today, Bryant, 21, is a master communicator, off the court as well as on. One of the National Basketball Association's superstars, he's in the first year of a six-year,  $71 million contract with the Los Angeles Lakers. Not bad, you say? Well, endorsement deals for everything from Adidas shoes to Mattel toys earn him more each year than he makes for shooting hoops. Slang? Please. Now he writes it. His first rap album, Visions, will soon be released by Columbia Records.

      Who needs Michael Jordan when the world's got Kobe? From the first day he skipped college to go right to the pros, Bryant emerged as the heir apparent to Air the pitchman. "In a post-Michael Jordan NBA, we're searching for the player who can capture the fans' imagination," says Meredith Ashley, a product manager at Mattel. "Kobe definitely does that."

      In fact, Bryant has entrepreneurial moves even a young Jordan didn't have. In December he paid less than  $2 million for a 50% stake in Olimpia Milano, a storied yet financially troubled pro basketball team in Milan, Italy. "It gets me back where I grew up," Bryant says. It also positions the player-owner as an ideal worldwide endorser. "Markets are spreading globally," he says, sounding more like a business school student than a six-and-a-half-foot, 215-pound shooting guard. "It gives me gives me a lot of leverage in business deals."

      Kobe played that leverage perfectly with Upper Deck, the sports trading card and collectibles company. It wanted Bryant as a spokesman to help build its business in the U.S. and Europe. No problem, Bryant says, but you'll have to be an Olimpia Milano corporate sponsor. And when news of Bryant's Olimpia deal reached Giorgio Armani, the Italian fashion designer suggested that his company and Kobe could be, as one Armani executive put it, "a perfect fit." Bryant is now a member of an elite group of entertainers and athletes who dress up daily as walking Armani advertisements.

      Want to hear some more leverage? The NBA itself is marketing stars like Kobe overseas as part of its own ambitious foreign expansion plans. Says Jerry West, the Lakers' executive vice president:  "If they successfully make this league more global, then Kobe's team could become more valuable."