Voice Is The Killer DSL App

Broadband skeptics who think digital subscriber line (DSL) connections are primarily for Internet junkies hooked on faster speeds will be in for a surprise later this year, when the latest DSL application (voice over DSL) begins to roll out. Finally, mainstream users will also crave DSL, and that will have a widespread effect on the entire telecommunications industry.



To date, broadband uses have ranged from the boring to the lascivious, everything from watching a Webcast of Alan Greenspan's Congressional testimony to downloading pornography. But using DSL to make phone calls is a truly practical application.



Even while makers of new DSL gear test their equipment and upstart  providers get ready to introduce the service, the question of how fast the voice-over-DSL market will develop and in what form is still open.



What is certain is that voice-over-DSL technology will lower the costs of local phone service--first for businesses and, later, for consumers--and give upstart DSL service providers like Covad Communications (nasdaq: COVD), Rhythms Net Connections (nasdaq: RTHM) and NorthPoint Communications (nasdaq: NPNT) a serious boost. It also will present a new opportunity for makers of DSL gear like Copper Mountain Networks (nasdaq: CMTN), Cisco Systems (nasdaq: CSCO) and Alcatel (nyse: ALA).



And voice-over-DSL is already giving birth to a new niche in the communications-equipment market. Startups like Tollbridge Technologies, CopperCom and Jet Stream Communications are building gateways that will make it easier to carry DSL voice calls over older networks.



One of the first business opportunities for those selling voice-over-DSL service will be in replacing existing T1 lines that deliver data to many businesses. Many upstart service providers, known as competitive local exchange carriers (CLECs), now rent space on these high-capacity phone lines from the Baby Bells and resell it to corporate customers for either Internet access or private data networks.
