Jerry Flint, a former Forbes Senior Editor, has covered the automobile industry since 1958. Business News Reporter ranks him as one of the 100 most prominent business journalists in the 20th century.

"Ford Motor Co. will be, one day, in the not-too-distant future, the
world's largest company. I'm convinced of it." That's my friend and fellow columnist Ken
Gross, writing in Automotive Industries. Ken, one smart guy, is director of the
Petersen Auto Museum in Los Angeles. (A terrific show. Visit it.) He also is the auto
columnist for Playboy--I told you he was smart.

Before I tell you what I think about Ford (nyse: F)
catching General Motors (nyse: GM),
here's some background.

I once asked the past chief executive of GM whether Ford would outsell GM on his watch.
I also listened to the present chief executive answer the same question. The answers of
both men were similar. Both said something like this: "We wouldn't want that to
happen. Still, this is a very competitive business. But if we do our job right, it
shouldn't happen." Their words weren't likely to inspire the charge of the light
brigade.

I asked a high executive of Ford the same question: whether Ford would beat GM. I won't
mention his name because it might embarrass him, but there were witnesses. He said that
yes, he expected Ford would overtake GM in the U.S., but not because Ford would increase
its sales that much, but because GM sales would fall below Ford's level. Let's look at
some numbers:

*Wholesale, excluding non-integrated operations.

So last year GM was on top by 1.6 million units. In this race there is the U.S. and the
world. Let's look at what's happening around the world. In Canada GM outsells Ford by a 5
to 3 margin. In Mexico GM kicks Ford 2 to 1. GM beats Ford in Western Europe, and the gap
is growing this year. GM also leads in important markets such as Brazil, Germany and
China.

Ford has been on an acquisition binge. This year Ford bought Land Rover from BMW,
so figure 200,000 more units, cutting the annual lead to 1.4 million. Ford is trying to
buy Daewoo of Korea, which had 1.1 million units last year. But then GM bought 20%
of Fiat, and there's talk of getting it all one day, and that's 2.5 million last
year.

My gut feeling here is that Ford has just fallen down in too many important markets
around the world to overtake GM.

The United States is a different story. The two rivals are close. After seven months,
GM had a market share of 28.5%, compared to 25% for Ford. Including Jaguar, Land Rover and Volvo in
the Ford total, and Saab and Hummer with GM, the gap between GM and Ford is 375,000 units
at midyear. I figure GM will come out ahead by 700,000 vehicles by the end of the year.

Can Ford close this gap? I believe Ford suffers from a historical fear when it comes to taking on GM
in this country. In the early days of the automobile, Ford was the largest auto company in
the world, with its Model T dominating sales. But GM, with its variety of ever-improving
models, outclassed the T and overtook Ford in the 1920s. Throughout the 1930s, and ever
since, GM has been number one.

After World War II, a young Henry Ford II (Old Henry's grandson), took over
Ford. Led by the young whiz kids he hired from the military and former GM veterans, he
rebuilt Ford. The company motto became "Beat GM."

Under Robert McNamara, later Secretary of Defense during the Vietnam War, Ford
Division caught Chevrolet in the mid-1950s. But GM's greatest strength was in the
middle of its lineup--Pontiac, Buick and Oldsmobile. Ford had only Mercury, so in the late
1950s it created another middle division, Edsel, and expanded its Mercury and Lincoln
products.

But "Beat GM" crashed with the failure of the Edsel, a crushing blow to the
company and its leadership. Edsel was the name of Henry II's father, so the defeat was
quite personal.

For 35 years Ford people didn't talk about catching GM. But in the past few years some
have been thinking about it, hinting, dropping an off-the-record remark, but never an open
challenge.

Do I think Ford will catch GM in the U.S.? I say no. Ford still seems fearful of risk. Or maybe it wisely plays a conservative game and
waits for the General to stumble.

Ford is still far behind in cars, particularly in the middle brands. And instead of
building up Mercury, Ford's highest executives--several who are foreigners--seem intent on
killing the Mercury brand. Ford is doing to Mercury what Chrysler did to
Plymouth--starving it until it could kill the brand without lawsuits.

I believe that a great many Americans just won't buy a product that says Ford. I can't
tell you why they just won't own a Ford, but they will buy a Mercury or Lincoln or Volvo.
And I think Ford's foreign leadership doesn't understand this.

Another problem: Ford just doesn't have enough product or capacity to catch GM in the
U.S. The company would need at least two to three more assembly plants, and Ford is
building none.

GM could keep sliding toward that 25% market share. It could do something dumb like
killing a division, such as Oldsmobile. But I still think Ford needs a more aggressive
attack in the middle of the car market to catch GM, and I don't see it happening. If Ford
got close, I suspect GM's current management would fall and a more aggressive team would
be put in place.

Beat GM? Not in sight yet.


What do you think? Let us know in Flint's forum.

