
February 29, 2000




Niku Up 183% After Initial Offering

By Nicole Koffey


NEW YORK. 3:35 PM EST-Niku’s (nasdaq: NIKU)
explosion out of the IPO gates today signals a strong demand for software companies that
help firms manage their internal resources. The company, which Goldman Sachs is
underwriting, rose 183% to $68 in midday trading, up from its $24 offering price. The
Redwood City, Calif.-based company will use this money to gain speed and forge its
position as first-mover in a market soon to be saturated with "me to"
competitors.



 More news from... 
Forbes.com

	
Microsoft, AOL Become Privacy Gatekeepers

	
	
Has PurchasePro Bitten Off More Than It Can Chew? 

	
	
Shifts in Wireless Businesses Offer Opportunities for Investors

	

Complete headlines...  



Newswires
	

U.S. Stocks Firmer In Late Morning

	

U.S. Stocks Gain At Open, Nasdaq Led By Biotech

	

Wall Street To Take Opening Cue From Jobs Data

	

Complete headlines...  




Message boards
	
 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:


 
Go!
	


Niku is the first to go public in a space dubbed "professional services
automation," which allows companies to manage billing, staffing and project
management through their intranets and extranets. 



NEW YORK. 3:35 PM EST-Niku’s (nasdaq: NIKU)
explosion out of the IPO gates today signals a strong demand for software companies that
help firms manage their internal resources. The company, which Goldman Sachs is
underwriting, rose 183% to $68 in midday trading, up from its $24 offering price. The
Redwood City, Calif.-based company will use this money to gain speed and forge its
position as first-mover in a market soon to be saturated with "me to"
competitors.

 Enter ticker symbol to see latest posts:

Clients include companies whose major assets are people and intellectual capital. In a
sense, Niku is tackling supply-chain management in the services industry, making it both
more efficient and easily accessed.

A consulting firm, for example, might use Niku to place all of its billing contracts on
its intranet so internal employees can easily access them. These same documents can also
be placed on Niku's extranet service, where designated clients can then gain access. Niku
also has an Internet portal that lets smaller businesses use its services without having
to buy the software.

Since Niku is the first to go public in this sector, it is able to capture a very high
valuation, says John Hagerty of AMR. "That translates into a lower cost of capital if
the company chooses to make acquisitions," says Hagerty. "Other players
following in Niku's footsteps will not enjoy the same easy flow of proceeds."

This is especially important in a sector where acquisitions are key to sustaining
growth. Niku acquired Proamics for $40 million in December 1999. That company's
software coordinates internal billing systems on Niku's systems and constitutes most of
the company's revenues. Since many of these acquisitions are purchased with stock, Niku's
lofty valuation will make future acquisitions easier. 

Several competitors in this space will soon go public. Hagerty lists Evolve, Change
Point and Novient as the most serious threats. By being first to go public, however, Niku
has gained the valuation and proceeds it needs to maintain its position at the head of the
pack. 