
90 min Hamann cleverly wins a corner to waste more time for Germany as two minutes of injury time are shown.




82 min Ballack breaks away on the right with only Dyer and a now-injured Beckham facing him. His chip to the far post finds the unmarked Nowotny who handballs and is booked when he should have scored. Beckham now hobbles off, clutching his sore left knee, and Parlour replaces him.



78 min Barry, on for the hard-working Le Saux a minute earlier, wins the ball off Deisler in the German half and feeds Beckham whose bounding shot is narrowly wide of Kahn's right hand post.



73 min An intricate England move on the left ends with Barmby pulling a low cross back between Scholes and Le Saux, neither of whom were marked at the far post.



70 min Beckham's long pass towards Owen finds the striker 35 yards out in the centre of the pitch with marker Rehmer having gone walkabout, but needing only a controlled touch to have a one-on-one with the keeper, Owen lets the ball slip under his foot.



63 min A quick free-kick from Le Saux finds Beckham who strikes a curling right-footed shot a few inches over the bar.



58 min England finally break out with the ball and Scholes finds the subdued Beckham, whose swerving 25-yarder really extends Kahn who has to tip over.



53 min Scholl cuts in from the left, twists and turns past Keown and fires a fierce, low shot which Seaman just snakes out an arm to save, the rebound coming too fast for the onrushing Bierhoff to turn in.




48 min Clever work by half-time sub Dyer sets up Cole 12 yards out, but his shot is just blocked.



45 min Kahn punches clear Le Saux's hanging cross to bring the half to an end.



43 min By far England's best chance as Beckham, taking a long free-kick, spots Adams making a run and the Arsenal defender's powerful diving header, helped by marker Nowotny's slip, is superbly clutched at full length by Kahn.



41 min Scholl collects the ball on the right after Le Saux's slip and finds Deisler who sets up Ramelow for a skidding 20-yard shot which Seaman holds well.



37 min Kahn is well behind Cole's firm header from Le Saux's cross.



35 min Another badly-judged tackle by Scholes on Ballack, this time 25 yards out, but Scholl's flighted free-kick is too close to Seaman.



33 min Fine control and turn in the area by Cole, but Linke just manages to hold him off and let the ball run through to Kahn.



27 min A half-cleared cross is fired first time on the volley by Le Saux, but Kahn covers his shot a yard past the post.



25 min Cole receives the first yellow card for a crude tackle from behind on Scholl.



24 min Bierhoff cannily wins another free-kick for obstruction by Southgate, and Bode's 25-yarder is finger-tipped around the post by Seaman.



20 min Cole is tripped up just outside the left edge of the penalty area but Beckham's shot, the first on target from England, is a comfortable catch for Kahn.



19 min Ramelow's mis-hit shot falls to a completely free Bierhoff inside the area but he is judged fractionally offside, saving England from going two down.



18 min Keown has to stand tall and get away two vital clearing headers as a confident Germany push forward.



14 min Scholes fouls Ballack just over 30 yards out and, while England have not assembled a wall, Dietmar Hamann fires in a shot which bounces in front of Seaman and into the net off his gloves to make it England 0-1 Germany. 



7 min Keown gets a vital skimming header on Ballack's cross to prevent Bierhoff from having a free header six yards out.




6 min Germany break well through sweeper Nowotny, but the move ends with Deisler's cross landing on top of Seaman's net.




1 min Owen breaks into the penalty area and only just fails to get the ball away to a completely unmarked Beckham.




England: Seaman, G Neville, Keown, Adams, Le Saux, Beckham, Southgate, Scholes, Barmby, Owen, Cole. Subs: Barry, Martyn,
Parlour, Dyer, Heskey, Wise, Phillips.




Germany: Kahn, Rehmer, Linke, Ramelow, Nowotny, Ballack,
Scholl, Deisler, Bierhoff, Hamann, Bode. Subs: Lehmann, Rink,
Beinlich, Wosz, Baumann, Ziege, Neuville.




Referee: Stefano Braschi (Prato)
