
92 mins Lomas heads clear after the impressive Rommedahl puts across a teasing cross.



90 mins Brian Steen Nielsen's shot deflects off Tomasson and wide. There are three minutes of stoppage time to be played.



88 mins In a rare late attack, Northern Ireland threaten as Murdock heads down but Taggart is penalised for a push.



85 mins Veteran striker Philip Gray comes in for the final few minutes.



84 mins Northern Ireland are stretched by the corner, but Taggart gets in a vital block to foil Helveg.



83 mins Bisgaard cleverly wins a corner.



82 mins Taggart is booked for a tackle from behind on Tomasson. Meanwhile, Charlton's Claus Jensen replaces Ebbe Sand.



80 mins Carroll holds on for longer than six seconds, and Denmark get an indirect free just inside the penalty area, but the Northern Ireland wall blocks Tofting's kick.



79 mins Murdock heads clear at the expense of a corner when there seemed little pressure, but Carroll gathers the flag kick comfortably.



77 mins Colin Murdock denies Tomasson with a well-timed block as the Feyenoord striker is poised for the winner.



75 mins The match has lost some of its early momentum, with both sides appearing content with a draw.



72 mins Philp Mulryne comes in for the ineffectual Jeff Whitley.



71 mins Another reprieve for the home side as Taggart just beats Sand to Rommedahl's cross.



69 mins Lomas has to head clear from under his bar from Sand's deft lob.



67 mins Denmark are still doing most of the pressing and look the more likely winners.



64 mins Udinese's Morten Bisgaard comes in for Grønkjær.



60 mins Denmark get back in the game to make it 1-1, with Dennis Rommedahl beating the offside trap and getting around Carroll to slot the ball into the empty net from the tightest of angles.



59 mins Healy misses a chance to double Northern Ireland's lead on the break. However, racing clear he gets the ball caught under his feet, and at the second attempt his shot is blocked behind.



57 mins Northern Ireland again come close. Grønkjær goes around Carroll, but his cut back is headed clear by Taggart with the goal temporarily unguarded.



55 mins Sand gets the ball in the net from the ensuing corner, but the whistle had already sounded for an earlier infringement.



54 mins Roy Carroll again saves Northern Ireland. He manages to parry Grønkjær's shot and then flicks the ball away as Sand prepared to pounce.



50 mins Grønkjær cuts in from the right but hits his shot well wide.



49 mins The players are having to contend with a torrential downpour as well as blustery wind.



47 mins Tofting almost equalises, but the Hamburg midfielder rifles a low shot inches wide from the edge of the penalty area.



46 mins Denmark get the second half under way, hoping to again come from behind as they did against Iceland in their opening qualifier.



45 mins There will only be one minute of injury time, as Northern Ireland look comfortable in possession.



43 mins Dangerman Healy is caught by a high tackle from Gravesen.



40 mins Lomas almost doubles the Irish lead, as his shot dips just over, leaving Schmeichel to furiously berate his defence.



39 mins It is the youngster's fifth goal in six games for his country.



38 mins David Healy opens the scoring with a stunning strike, which swerves past his former club-mate Schmeichel. He picked up the ball just outside the centre circle, ran at the Danish defence, and hit home a magnificent goal. 1-0 to Northern Ireland.



36 mins Lennon attempts to burst through,  the ball deflects off Stig Tofting, but Schmeichel saves with relative ease.



35 mins David Healy is again caught offside, as the pace slows somewhat.



32 mins Magilton's pass far too long for Healy.



31 mins Although the match has yet to catch fire, there could conceivably have been four goals.



29 mins Denmark miss a third gilt-edged chance. Northern Ireland fail to clear a free-kick and Helveg pokes the ball goalwards only for Carroll to again save.



28 mins Steve Lomas becomes the second player booked for a clumsy tackle on Grønkjær.



27 mins Great play from Tomasson splits the Irish defence, but Roy Carroll is out quickly to block.



25 mins Northern Ireland string 20 passes together, but they still look lightweight in attack.



23 mins Denmark are struggling with their final ball, which is too often going astray.



22 mins Jesper Grønkjær puts his cross behind when he had done well to break clear.



19 mins Stuart Elliott almost unlocks the Danish defence with a jinking run, but Gravesen intercepts.



17 mins From the kick, Gerry Taggart spurns a good opportunity; sending a bullet header just over the bar.



16 mins Healy is crowded out by Thomas Gravesen, but Northern Ireland win a free.



14 mins Jim Magilton loses possession as Northern Ireland struggle to find their rhythm.



12 mins Schmeichel is being booed for some reason whenever he touches the ball. There are obviously not too many Manchester United fans in the ground.



11 mins Denmark have a perfect record of two wins out of two under new manager Morten Olsen.



8 mins Dennis Rommedahl slices his shot wide after he had been well set up by Tomasson and Rene Henriksen. Again he should have scored.



7 mins Denmark are looking lively down the right flank in the opening minutes.



5 mins Ebbe Sand squanders a great chance from Jon Dahl Tomasson's cross. Roy Carroll did well to save, but Sand should have scored.



4 mins David Healy is caught marginally offside. The Manchester United forward is playing as a lone striker.



2 mins Kevin Horlock is caught by a heavy tackle from Thomas Helveg, who is cautioned.



2 mins Northern Ireland are without Ian Nolan and Damien Johnson, with Steve Lomas deputising at right back.



1 min Peter Schmeichel has recovered from an injury and is fit to make his 127th appearance for the Danes, who are ranked 78 places above Northern Ireland, who kick off.



 Northern Ireland: Carroll, A. Hughes, Taggart, Murdock, Lomas,
Elliott, Magilton, Lennon, J. Whitley, Horlock, Healy. Subs:
Wright, Gray, McKnight, J. Quinn, Mulryne, M. Williams,
McGibbon.



 Denmark: Schmeichel, Heintze, Gravesen, Henriksen, Helveg,
B. Nielsen, Tofting, Tomasson, Gronkjaer, Rommedahl, Sand. Subs:
Lustu, A. Nielsen, Michaelsen, Jensen, Sorensen, Bisgaard,
Pedersen.



Referee: Vitor Pereira (Portugal)
