
It launched in November 1997 and has since published approaching one and a half million full multi-media news pages, all but a handful of which are still available from the site's search engine (top right of almost every page). 



Each page is published by the teams of online journalists based in the main newsroom in BBC TV Centre at White City, west London, at BBC World Service at Bush House in central London, in national and regional newsrooms across England, in Glasgow, Belfast and Cardiff and in an increasing number of the BBC's many international bureaux worldwide. 



Much of the material is written by these journalists and the rest comes from writers in the BBC's specialist units, covering everything from business and social affairs to foreign news. Many of the BBC's correspondents operating worldwide also contribute as well as those at BBC Monitoring. Non-BBC journalists are frequently commissioned to contribute. 



The BBC Sport website, produced by BBC Sport, is fully integrated with the BBC News site, using the same technology and delivery platforms and edited in partnership. 



A wide variety of sources is used in the preparation of material - including BBC News, BBC World Service and a large number of internationally-recognised news agencies. They include the Press Association, Associated Press, Reuters and Agence France-Presse. 



Any content specified as Reuters content is the intellectual property of Reuters. Any copying, republication or redistribution of such Reuters content, including by cacheing, framing or similar means, is expressly prohibited without the prior written consent of Reuters. Reuters and Reuters Sphere logo are trade marks and registered trade marks of the Reuters Group of companies around the world. The Reuters public website is accessible at:




    
	
        
	    	


BBC Monitoring, based in Caversham in southern England, selects and translates information from radio, television, press, news agencies and the Internet from 150 countries in more than 70 languages.




    
	
        
	    	


Sources, and terms and conditions for the use of the BBC News website's financial data 



All financial data carried by the BBC News website enjoy indicative status only.The BBC accepts no responsibility for their accuracy or for any use to which they may be put. 



All information is provided by Comstock and its affiliates (the "Financial Data") on the BBC's sites is owned by or licensed to Comstock and its affiliates and any user is permitted to store, manipulate, analyse, reformat, print and display the Financial Data only for such user's personal use. In no event shall any user publish, retransmit, redistribute or otherwise reproduce any Financial Data in any format to anyone, and no user shall use any Financial Data in any connection with any business or commercial enterprise, including, without limitation, any securities, investment, accounting, banking, legal or media business or enterprise. 



Prior to the execution of a security trade based upon the Financial Data, you are advised to consult with your broker or other financial representative to verify pricing information. 



Neither Comstock nor its affiliates make any express or implied warranties (including, without limitation, any warranty of merchantability or fitness for a particular purpose or use) regarding the Financial Data. The Financial Data is provided to the users "as is". 



Neither Comstock nor its affiliates will be liable to any user or anyone else for interruption, inaccuracy, error or omission, regardless of cause, in the Financial Data or for any damages (whether direct or indirect, consequential, punitive or exemplary) resulting therefrom. 



Financial data from the London stock market is copyrighted by and published with permission of the London Stock Exchange. 



Financial data from the Paris, Brussels and Amsterdam stock exchanges is copyrighted by and published with permission of Euronext NV. 



Financial data from the Frankfurt stock exchange is copyrighted by and published with permission of Deutsche Boerse AG. 



London Metal Exchange data for cash and three-month prices are mid-values calculated by the BBC and based on data supplied by the LME. 



The Dow Jones Index is compiled, calculated and distributed by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. and has been licensed for use.All content of the Dow Jones Indexes is copyrighted by Dow Jones & Company, Inc. Dow Jones and its affiliates, sources and distribution agents shall not be liable for any loss or damage whatsoever arising from any inaccuracy, incompleteness or delays in the delivery of the index. The Dow Jones parties do not make any warranties to readers with respect to the timeliness, sequence, accuracy, completeness, currentness, quality or fitness of the data. 



Data supplied through the Chicago Mercantile Exchange are proprietary and may not be copied, disseminated or used without the express written permission of Chicago Mercantile Exchange Inc.





            