The move follows talks between new leaders and Mr Akayev 


Mr Akayev signed a resignation agreement in Moscow, where he had fled to after demonstrators stormed his offices in the Kyrgyz capital Bishkek.



The move follows talks on Sunday with Kyrgyzstan's new interim leaders. 



They wanted Mr Akayev to formally resign so that fresh presidential elections could be held to decide his successor.




"Askar Akayev has just signed a resignation from the post of Kyrgyzstan president, effective April 5," Sadyk Djaparov, a Kyrgyz lawmaker, told reporters outside Kyrgyzstan's embassy in Moscow.



Another deputy, Tashkul Kereksizov, said Mr Akayev had recorded a 20 minute message which would be aired in the Kyrgyz parliament on Tuesday.



It was not clear if the message would be publicly shown.



Mr Akayev announced on Sunday that he would resign, following talks with a parliamentary delegation from Kyrgyzstan at the country's embassy in Moscow. 


1990: Askar Akayev elected president for the first time

27 Feb 2005: Parliamentary elections spark protests, amid allegations of fraud

13 March: Protests escalate following second round of elections

21 March: Demonstrators take over official buildings in the south of the country

24 March: Protests spread to Bishkek, where demonstrators seize presidential palace. Akayev leaves for Russia 

25 March: Kurmanbek Bakiev appointed acting president


The talks came hours after Kyrgyzstan's Constitutional Court said Mr Akayev could legally resign in exile. Acting President Kurmanbek Bakiev had said his predecessor should not return to Kyrgyzstan to step down as this would risk destabilising the country.



But the interim leadership wanted him to resign in order to pave the way for presidential elections, which they have tentatively scheduled for 26 June. 



Both Mr Bakiev and another senior figure in the new administration, Felix Kulov, have already announced they will run for the top job.



Mr Akayev fled Kyrgyzstan on 24 March, after thousands of demonstrators called for his resignation and overran his government offices.



They had complained about official corruption, and disputed parliamentary elections.



Political chaos followed, as the legislature in power before the disputed elections, and the one subsequently elected, vied for legitimacy. The old parliament eventually gave up its claim. 



Mr Akayev's ousting also created social upheaval - two nights of gunfire and looting followed the demonstrations.



Mr Akayev had ruled Kyrgyzstan since 1990.
		
                    	