Social care is currently means-tested

Labour and the Lib Dems are due to join care providers and charities in the talks aimed at agreeing options for a national care service for England. 

Many are likely to tell ministers a compulsory fee would be the best funding option, the BBC understands. 

The Tories have dubbed the idea a "death tax". 

Last year, Labour set out a range of options in a Green Paper on how the means-tested system could be overhauled. 

One of the suggestions was a compulsory fee, possibly up to £20,000, which could be taken from an individual's estate after death. 

Stephen Burke, of Counsel and Care

The Conservatives vehemently oppose this idea, which they have dubbed a "death tax", claiming it would penalise families who want to look after elderly relatives themselves. They favour a voluntary scheme. 

The issue has proved a major sticking point and caused secret talks between the three main parties to break down. 

Health Secretary Andy Burnham called Friday's conference, but Conservative health spokesman Andrew Lansley has said he will not be there. 

"Andy Burnham a week ago wasn't intending to have a conference at all," he told BBC's Newsnight. 

"He wasn't interested a week ago in what the stakeholders, the councils, the charities had to say. He called the conference as a political ploy." 

Mr Burnham will be told at the conference that he needs to be clearer about how a national care service would be funded. 

David Rogers, of the Local Government Association, said: "We need much greater clarity over this. We don't want to see councils left to pick up the bill." 

Association of Directors of Adult Social Services

He said local authorities had already had to start restricting access to services because of a lack of funding to cope with the ageing population - three-quarters of councils now only provide help to the most in need. 

His concerns were backed by an Audit Commission report this week, which said councils were facing a struggle as the £9bn-a-year bill for older people could double by 2026. 

Councillor Rogers said the LGA did not have a position on which of the models for reform it preferred - this reflects the fact the group has cross-party membership. 

But others at the conference, being held at the Department of Health's London HQ, are expected to ask Mr Burnham to be bold and go for the compulsory charge. 

Stephen Burke, of Counsel and Care, a charity for the elderly, said: "It is time for a serious debate. We believe a system that involves everyone is the only way to properly fund care." 

The Association of Directors of Adult Social Services said a compulsory charge was the best way to get the most funding. 

Its President, Jenny Owen, said: "The problem with a voluntary scheme is that too many people opt out. 

"We now need to get consensus. We don't need a political bun fight because then it will be put into the 'too difficult box'." 

Liberal Democrat health spokesman Norman Lamb is expected to attend the meeting and his office said he was open to backing a compulsory charge. 

The government had hoped to achieve cross-party support for a specific plan, which will be published in a white paper in March. 

The Conservatives have already published proposals for an £8,000 voluntary insurance fee to cover care home charges and is now in the process of drawing up similar plans for support at home for things such as washing, dressing and eating.
