In-depth coverage about U.S. Presidential Election

Gore Protects Base, Bush Aims for California - Reuters (Oct 27, 2000)

Bush, Gore zero in on key states - MSNBC (Oct 27, 2000)

Polling Report: White House 2000 - features candidate vs. candidate scenarios, and poll results from a variety of sources.

Electoral College - includes an introduction to the body that chooses the President following popular elections. From the National Archives and Records Administration.

Public Agenda: Clarifying Issues 2000 - non-partisan guide designed to help voters clarify their views and weigh values concerning challenging problems and issues.

Campaign 2000 Editorial Cartoons - representing views from around the world, updated daily. From Daryl Cagle's Professional Cartoonists' Index.

Election 2000: Total Raised - find out how much candidates have raised, who the contributors are, and what industries give the most.

Fright Court - Washington Post (Oct 27, 2000)

What accounts for the anti-Nader hysteria of the New York Times? - World Socialist Web Site (Oct 27, 2000)

The Kids Are Alright -- Unless They Protest - Ironminds (Oct 27, 2000)

Gore's too-willing executioners - Salon (Oct 27, 2000)

Fighting Al Gore wows Wisconsin - Salon (Oct 27, 2000)

Gore goes Green - Salon (Oct 27, 2000)

Just one touch - Salon (Oct 27, 2000)

Taking Sides: Editorial Political Endorsements - Online NewsHour (Oct 27, 2000)

Gore hits issues; Bush hits character - MSNBC (Oct 27, 2000)

Votes for Nader could turn the election - MSNBC (Oct 26, 2000)

Is Green Party candidate Ralph Nader a spoiler for Al Gore? - Online NewsHour (Oct 25, 2000)

Related Full Coverage

9 people are waiting to discuss this story.[View Conversations]
[Start a Conversation]

Bush Turns to Key States to Break Deadlock

ST. LOUIS (Reuters) - With the presidential debates over
and the race still deadlocked, Republican George W. Bush (news - web sites) headed
to Wisconsin and Michigan Wednesday, two of the states his
aides say may hold the key to victory.

The Texas governor felt he stood his ground with an
aggressive Democratic rival in the third and final debate on
Tuesday night, while early reviews from the television
networks' snap polls generally gave Vice President Al Gore (news - web sites) a
slight edge or called it a draw.

``I felt like I did a good job,'' Bush said on the ABC
program ``Good Morning America.'' ``I was able to speak plainly.''

``He's an aggressive campaigner but I don't think it stands
him well,'' the Texan added. ``Attacking somebody all the time
prevents him from talking about what he intends to do.''

With the pressure of debating over, Bush immediately turned
his attention to the tasks at hand if he is to win the election
on Nov. 7 -- attracting the support of independent and swing
voters in crucial battleground states and getting his
supporters to go to the polls.

``We've now finished the debate phase of this campaign,'' he
told supporters. ``It's now voter-turnout time. Grass-roots
politics are going to make the difference.''

Bush began exhorting the faithful to get ``discerning
Democrats, independents and lazy Republicans'' to the polls
after the second debate in Winston-Salem, North Carolina last
week, combining policy speeches and pep rallies on his daily
campaign rounds.

With less than three weeks to go, Bush has begun to focus
on a handful of states where he can make inroads into
traditional Democratic territory or where he needs to shore up
a shaky lead.

Aides said Pennsylvania and Michigan were the top two where
he and Gore are running neck-and-neck, closely followed by
Wisconsin, Washington state and Oregon. The latter three states
were reliably Democratic in the past three presidential
elections but recent polls indicate they are now a toss-up.

Bush also planned to visit Florida soon in the hope of
sealing the state's 25 electoral votes. A candidate needs 270
to win the White House.

His younger brother Jeb Bush is governor of Florida and the
Republican nominee had hoped to have the state wrapped up by
now. But Gore has concentrated on the state and turned the
contest there into a horse race.

Bush's aides also expressed some optimism about Arkansas,
home of President Clinton (news - web sites) and Tennessee, Gore's home state, as
well as New Hampshire, Iowa and New Mexico.
Bush starts the drive to the finish line in Eau Claire and
LaCrosse, Wis., Wednesday afternoon, where he is due to talk
about his plan to rescue the Social Security retirement system
from bankruptcy, reform of the Medicare health insurance plan
for the elderly and his $1.3 trillion tax cut. He then heads to
Detroit, Michigan.

Bush has recruited his mother, former first lady Barbara
Bush, his wife Laura and Lynne Cheney, the wife of his vice
presidential running mate Dick Cheney (news - web sites), to lead an all-woman
charge in the same two states this week.

Friday, Bush is set to be joined in New Hampshire by John
McCain (news - web sites), the man he beat in a bitter battle for the Republican
presidential nomination. The Arizona senator drubbed him by 19
percentage points in the New Hampshire primary in February.

Bush's visit to Michigan will be his ninth since the
unofficial Labor Day kickoff of the campaign's final stretch
six weeks ago. In rallies there he intended to keep casting the
philosophical divide between him and Gore in stark terms.

In the 90-minute, town hall style debate Tuesday, Bush said
he believed Americans clearly saw the differences between ``a
heavy hand out of Washington versus a helping hand.''

