ABCNEWS.com News Break

ABCNEWS.com News Break

 Oct. 17 — A last-minute cease-fire deal has been struck between  Israeli and Palestinian leaders at an emergency  Middl e East summit in Egypt, bringing a crucial  first step toward ending weeks of violence  between the two sides.          After a marathon round of talks at  the Egyptian Red Sea resort of Sharm  el-Sheikh, President Clinton announced  the agreement and said the Israelis and  Palestinians had agreed to consult with  the United States within the next two  weeks “about how to move forward.”   Standing with Israeli Prime Minister  Ehud Barak and Palestinian leader  Yasser Arafat, who signed no formal  agreement and made no statement  themselves, Clinton said both had  agreed to make a “public statement calling for an end to  violence.”

         Some 1,200 U.S. troops are being sent to Yemen to support the probe into the  bombing of the USS Cole, ABCNEWS.com has  learned.   The Associated Press said that  Yemeni authorities found bomb-making  equipment in a house near the port of  Aden where two non-Yemeni Arabs  had stayed.  Yemeni officials said the men were  believed to have entered Yemen four  days before Thursday’s bombing of the  Cole. They did not say which country  the men had traveled from.  A senior U.S. official said the U.S. and Yemeni  investigators were intent on solving the mystery of who  struck the Cole, killing 17 sailors and injuring 39. Stay with ABCNEWS.com for details, and watch our video report. 

        A tentative agreement to end the  monthlong strike by bus and rail drivers in Los  Angeles has been reached and will face a vote  by employees tonight, said the Rev. Jesse  Jackson, who has been working with negotiators  in recent days.  “We had almost given up, and then we were blessed  by an angel that gave us a fresh idea,” Jackson said at a  morning news conference after a marathon, all-night  negotiation session.  The Metropolitan Transportation Authority normally  serves about 450,000 riders daily throughout Los Angeles  County. Contract disputes have centered on overtime  pay, the timing of shifts and what would happen to  workers under a reorganization of the massive transit  agency. 

        Missou ri Gov. Mel  Carnahan and two others, including his son,  were killed in a plane crash just outside of St.  Louis.   The governor’s office issued a  statement early this morning confirming  that Carnahan had been killed.   “We will miss him dearly,” said the  statement that also declared that Lt.  Gov. Roger Wilson was officially  appointed acting governor.  Earlier, Lt. Gov. Roger Wilson was  escorted to the Statehouse in Jefferson  City from St. Louis by a state trooper.  “I hope everyone in Missouri will put the Carnahan  family and the Sifford family in their prayers,” said Wilson,  51. He said he had accepted the role of acting governor.    

         The brother of the  man rewarded for finding doz ens of stolen  Oscar statuettes has been charged in connection  with the theft earlier this year.   John Willie Harris, 54, was charged Monday with  receiving stolen property and being an accessory after the  fact to grand theft.  Harris was arrested last week and released Saturday  on his own recognizance. His arraignment is scheduled for  Nov. 8.  Harris’ brother, Willie Fulgear, 61, received a  $50,000 reward and tickets to the Academy Awards  show in March after he found 52 of the 55 missing Oscars  while rummaging through a trash bin. 

        And for the latest headlines, head to ABCNEWS.com. 