Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

11 Billion-Year-Old Gamma Ray Blast Found in Space

WASHINGTON (Reuters) - The afterglow from a cosmic
explosion that occurred 11 billion years ago could give
scientists a new way to measure the age of heavenly objects,
astronomers reported on Wednesday.

The explosion, known as a gamma ray burst, was spotted last
January, and it took investigators eight months to figure out
where it came from. GRB 000131, as it is known, came from the
southern constellation Carina (the Keel).

Before this, the previous record holder was less than 9
billion years old, astronomers said in a statement.

Observations by a cluster of interplanetary space probes
indicate that the gamma ray blast probably emanated from a
monstrous dying star more than 30 times as massive as the sun,
scientists said in a statement.

Their findings were to be presented on Wednesday in Rome at
an international meeting on gamma ray bursts, which are
mysterious flashes of high-energy light that occur about once a
day.

What causes these bursts is not known, but they are the
most powerful explosions in the known universe, according to
Kevin Hurley, a physicist at the University of California at
Berkeley and principal investigator of the gamma ray burst
experiment aboard NASA (news - web sites)'s Ulysses spacecraft.

The explosion the scientists detected is about 11 billion
light-years away. A light-year is about 6 trillion miles (9.5
trillion km), the distance light travels in a year.

``The light from this gigantic flash had traveled 11 billion
years before reaching the earth and suggests that these
explosive objects may provide us with the longest yardsticks
yet for detecting and studying galaxies in the early universe,''
Hurley said in a statement.

Gamma ray bursts cannot be seen from Earth because the
atmosphere absorbs them, but special spacecraft can detect
traces of the gamma radiation as it heads for our planet and
from this can determine which direction they came from.

Astronomers using the European Space Agency's massive
telescope in Chile found an optical afterglow from the
explosion, suggesting it had come from a great distance.

The network of spacecraft that detected this blast includes
Ulysses, operated by NASA and the European Space Agency; NASA's
Near Earth Asteroid Rendezvous; and the Italian Bepposax
spacecraft.

