Discuss this story with other people.
[Start a Conversation]

Many Mammograms Have False-Positive Outcomes

NEW YORK (Reuters Health) - Women who start having
mammograms once per year at the age of 50 could have as many as
three false-positive readings in their lifetime, researchers
report.

Dr. Cindy L. Christiansen of the Boston University School
of Public Health in Massachusetts and colleagues set out to
identify which women are more likely to receive a
false-positive mammogram--one which seems to show the presence
of cancer or pre-cancerous cells when in reality there are
none. In addition, the investigators examined the ways in which
mammograms are conducted to see how that might contribute to a
false-positive result.

The team examined the outcomes of nearly 10,000 mammograms
conducted on 2,227 women who were aged 40 to 69.

Overall, ``6.5% were false-positive; 23.8% of women
experienced at least one false-positive result. After nine
mammograms, the risk of a false-positive mammogram was 43.1%,''
the report indicates.

The researchers discovered that four characteristics that
were specifically related to the individual patient led to more
false-positive results. ``Younger women, women using estrogen,
women that had a previous biopsy performed, and women who had a
family history of breast cancer all had an increased chance for
a false-positive,'' Christiansen told Reuters Health.

Other factors also contributed to the likelihood of a
false-positive outcome. For instance, the more time that passed
between mammograms increased a woman's risk of a false-positive
result, as did the practice of not comparing mammograms to
previous mammograms, according to Christiansen.

The research team hopes that focusing on some of these risk
factors may lead women to be more informed about the process.

``For instance, women who do not have a mammogram to compare
to the new one are 75% more likely to have a false-positive,''
Christiansen explained. ``So if it's possible, we would
recommend that women try and obtain previous results to aid the
process.'' Likewise, ``women who were taking estrogen had a 29%
chance of having a false-positive.''

This information may ease some of the anxiety that a woman
feels when she is called back for further testing, Christiansen
noted.

``Most women, are likely to have a false-positive and if
women know that at some point in time they are likely to be
called back for further testing, they shouldn't worry
excessively,'' co-author Mary B. Barton, said in an interview
with Reuters Health.

SOURCE: Journal of the National Cancer Institute
2000;92:1657-1666.

