
An enormous eddy of warm air has slipped into the Jungfrau region in the Swiss Alps. The bane of climbers on the Eiger, a foehn, is coming in. Like a chinook, it is a coil of air that thaws ice and snow and triggers avalanches. Worse, directly after a foehn often follows a big chill that varnishes rock walls with a thin sheen of ice that neither ice axe nor piton can grip. That thin ice layer is called verglas. Verglas, John Harlin III repeats in almost mantra-like manner, is not something he wants to face on the North Face of the Eiger. 


As were gathered in the Victorian salon of the not-overstated-in-name Bellevue des Alpes hotel we take turns making introductions. We go through the film crew, the supporting climbers, the Yahoo! team, John, and finally his wife, Adele Hammond. 


Midway through describing a new school for her nine-year-old daughter, Siena, Adeles voice cracks, and she struggles to hold back tears. While not everyone in the room knows the grim history of the North Face of the Eiger, everyone knows how risky this concept is and how terribly wrong things could go. 


By the mid-1930s every major face in the Alps had been climbed, save one. After years of covetous consideration, Munich-based Max Sedlmayer and Karl Mehringer made the first incursion onto the North Face in 1935. But a storm drove in, trapping them halfway up the mountains 13,025-foot summit, and they froze to death at a spot known since as Death Bivouac.


A year later, another German team consisting of Edi Rainer, Willy Angerer, Andreas Hinterstoisser and Toni Kurz was retreating from the mountain in brutal weather after a minor rock fall mishap. Within earshot of the Jungfraubahn tourist railway tunnel window, a third of the way up where the caretaker had already begun to brew tea for the climbers all except Kurz fell to their deaths. Kurz hung on for a night and a day, one arm frostbitten and useless, while local guides tried to rescue him.


Somehow Kurz found the strength to clamber part of the way back up, where he cut a length of rope, unraveled its three strands and tied them together in order to make a line long enough to rappel down to his rescuers. As he dangled beneath an overhang, so close the guides could almost touch the soles of his boots, a knot jammed. He yelled down, Ich kann nicht mehr, (I'm finished) and then slumped over, dead.


Finally, in 1938, the year Germany annexed Austria into the Reich, Austrians Heinrich Harrer and Fritz Kasparek, along with Germans Andrel Heckmair and Ludwig Vorg, cracked the code and made the first successful ascent of the North Face. But the accomplishment stirred its own storm after a photograph was published of the four climbers flanking Adolf Hitler at Breslau, inciting accusations that the climb was a Nazi propaganda effort. The charge is denied to this day by the last surviving member of the team, Harrer, who, at 93, is living out his final days in his native Austria. 


Today the route that Harrer and companions blazed is known as the Classic Route, following the lines of weakness up the face; it is the one John hopes to attempt in a few days time, if weather permits. Twenty-five years ago, when he was a much younger man, hed entertained a retracing of the John Harlin Direct Route the route named for his father but something happened to change his mind. 


John was only six when he made his first multi-pitch climb, in the Calanques of southern France; it must have inspired his father as the elder Harlin made his first ascent of the North Face, the first Anglophone to do so, in 1963. 


It was on his second attempt three years later, following the more pure route that now bears his name, that John Harlin II fell to his death. 


Even so, John continued to climb after his fathers fall. At 13 he climbed Mt. Chamberlin, the highest peak in Alaskas Brooks Range. At college in California he became president of the mountaineering club, and his dorm room was decorated with posters of Himalayan peaks he hoped to climb. By his early 20s he was an extreme skier and accomplished climber, and began to contemplate a path that would connect him to the climbs his dad had done. 


Then in 1979 he set out to Mt. Robson in the Canadian Rockies with a climbing partner, Chuck Hospedales. After climbing its Wishbone Arte, they were descending in the late afternoon beneath a huge couloir (a hanging wall of ice) without being roped up. John led and, after negotiating over a knob and down a 10-foot section of vertical rock, looked up to coach his less-experienced cohort. There was an unnaturally long pause as John waited, so he yelled up, Cant you feel the handhold?


I cant, Chuck muttered back. And he peeled off the mountain. John lunged and felt the fabric of his partners jacket, but found no grip. Helplessly, John listened to the death scream and watched the sparks of crampons as they repeatedly struck the rock through the 500-foot fall. 


John scrambled down in the darkness to reach the mountaineers hut below, where he wrote in the logbook: This mountain game isnt worth it. 


The next morning he reached the police station, and a helicopter was dispatched for the body. John couldnt bring himself to call Chucks folks, but he did call his own mother, who was overwrought with the news. John realized then how awful it would be for his mom should he die in a climbing accident, and at that moment he vowed to quit alpinism, for my moms sake. What he once felt was the finest expression of freedom and self-validation he now saw as a photographic negative: everything white was black.


Sitting in the salon, facing the gleaming wilderness of the North Face, John touches a deep spring of memory; his countenance breaks, and he cries. For a moment the alpine world seems to balance on a point of silence. 


He then gathers himself and looks to the middle distance. I dont know why we deliberately put ourselves in harms way. But some things are part of you that you cant leave behind. 


John took a 12-year interregnum from radical alpine climbing, but in its place he mastered extreme skiing. He made ski descents of Orizaba and Popocateptl in Mexico, the first three-pin descent of Perus Huascaran, the first ski descent of Bolivas Cunantincato, and he performed other ski heroics in the Rockies and Alps. 


The most important characteristic for an alpinist is a short memory, he likes to say. You forget the suffering and try again. And so in 1991 he was back, making an ascent of the Matterhorn and other peaks throughout the Alps. 


In 1999 he brought Adele and Siena, then three years old, to Leysin, where they planted flowers on his fathers grave. It was then and there that he decided to attempt the Eiger himself, the mountain that claimed his fathers life. But when he separated from his family at the train station he found himself wandering around in a spate of tears. Whats wrong? John asked himself. He felt like he was saying goodbye and realized how awful it would be for his daughter to grow up without a dad. 


When he reached the Jungfrau, fully intending to climb the Eiger, he found that climbing conditions were poor, as they are some years, and few attempts were made. It was with some relief that his climb was aborted. 


John went on to pioneer a new route up Mont Blanc and made hard climbs in Germany, Austria, Italy and elsewhere in Europe. He even made an attempt on a virgin peak in Tibet. But always the dark wall of the Eiger dropped stones into the pool of his life, rippling. 


If for a time his spirit was skyjacked, it has now come home. And here, John is hoping he can join the one club that has nagged him throughout his life, chalk off that one item on his list of life goals, and reach the peerage that would make his father proud.

Expedition coverage in cooperation with MacGillivray Freeman Films, producers of the upcoming IMAX® Theater film, The Alps: Giants of Nature, featuring John Harlin's attempt to climb the Eiger and presented by Holcim Ltd.  Watch for the book from Simon & Schuster, due Spring 2007.
