
	
		


Wed Aug 17, 5:40 PM ET

		
	


EDWARDS AIR FORCE BASE, Calif. (AP) - Space shuttle Discovery is tentatively scheduled to leave California on Friday, more than a week after it was diverted to the Mojave Desert in the first shuttle flight since the Columbia accident.

Discovery's cross-country ferry to Cape Canaveral, Fla., expected to cost 


NASA at least $1 million US, has been postponed twice this week due to bad weather and technical glitches.
Monday's thunderstorms forced crews to temporarily halt preparations. Technicians encountered problems Wednesday while trying to attach a 4,500-kilogram aluminum tail cone to the shuttle to eliminate drag during flight. Discovery still has to be mated to the top of a modified Boeing 747, a process that takes eight to 10 hours.
Discovery and its seven-member crew touched down on a desert runway at the base on Aug. 9 after a 14-day mission to supply the 


International Space Station and test new equipment. Four attempts to land in Florida failed because of bad weather. It was the first shuttle to launch since the Columbia disaster in 2003.



	
		Email Story
			IM Story
			Discuss
			Printable View
			
			RECOMMEND THIS STORY
							
				
					Recommend It: 
						Not at All
						Somewhat
						Moderately
						Highly
						Very Highly
															
			
			
				Average (Not Rated)
				
				
			
			
				» Recommended Stories
			
		
        

	





	
				Canada
						Protests greet Chinese president in Toronto as Cda courts economic powerhouse Canadian Press
						Pot activist Marc Emery rallies supporters in front of U.S. consulate Canadian Press
						Many sovereigntist have streak of intolerance toward cultural communities: Pettigrew Canadian Press
						Union spokesman says inmate killed at Edmonton Remand Centre Canadian Press
						Police seek man after St. Catharines boy, 8, fatally shot in back Canadian Press
					
					
	





Wed Aug 17, 5:40 PM ET

Discovery's cross-country ferry to Cape Canaveral, Fla., expected to cost 


NASA at least $1 million US, has been postponed twice this week due to bad weather and technical glitches.

Monday's thunderstorms forced crews to temporarily halt preparations. Technicians encountered problems Wednesday while trying to attach a 4,500-kilogram aluminum tail cone to the shuttle to eliminate drag during flight. Discovery still has to be mated to the top of a modified Boeing 747, a process that takes eight to 10 hours.

Discovery and its seven-member crew touched down on a desert runway at the base on Aug. 9 after a 14-day mission to supply the 


International Space Station and test new equipment. Four attempts to land in Florida failed because of bad weather. It was the first shuttle to launch since the Columbia disaster in 2003.