Universal Pictures and producers Dino and Martha De Laurentiis--the forces 
behind the upcoming Silence of 
the Lambs sequel, Hannibal--are 
planning a third chapter in the story of everyone's favorite cannibal. 


The new project, which would presumably feature Anthony 
Hopkins in the role that won him an Oscar, would be based on author Thomas 
Harris' 1981 bestseller Red Dragon, the book that introduced the world to 
the genius psychiatrist-turned-human muncher. 


"Red Dragon is about the crime Hannibal Lecter committed and the way 
he was arrested," Dino De Laurentiis tells the Hollywood Reporter. 
"Hannibal Lecter escaped in Silence of the Lambs, and in Hannibal, 
you see him in a new situation in Florence [Italy]. The audience would like to 
know--once and forever--why, where and by whom Hannibal Lecter was arrested. 
This new version has parts of the book never seen before." 


Dragon details FBI agent Will Graham's hunt for a serial killer who 
goes by the moniker of the book's title. Coming out of retirement, Graham is 
forced to call upon his old foe Dr. Lecter, now behind bars, to help him catch 
the killer. 


De Laurentiis has hired scribe Ted Tally, who won an Oscar for his Silence 
of the Lambs screenplay, to script Dragon. According to the 
Reporter, Hopkins has expressed interest in reprising his legendary role 
for a third go-round, provided, of course, he likes the script. Tally's due to 
complete the screenplay in mid-March. 


With the success of Silence of the Lambs and anticipation high for the 
February 9 release of the Ridley 
Scott-helmed Hannibal, it's no wonder De Laurentiis has gone back to 
the book that started it all. 


In fact, this would be the second time De Laurentiis has brought Red 
Dragon to the screen. In 1986, writer-director Michael 
Mann (The 
Insider) adapted a feature version of Red Dragon for De 
Laurentiis called Manhunter. 
That version starred William L. 
Petersen as Will Graham and British thesp Brian Cox 
as Lecter. The film only grossed $8.6 million. 


Pending a threatened strike by the Writers Guild of America and Screen Actors 
Guild, De Laurentiis and Universal hope to get Red Dragon into production 
as early as July.
