Mariah Carey has finally had enough of cleavage-baring,  clingy clothes seemingly fashioned out of sequined sausage casing. The New York  Post says the diva is ditching her trashtastic togs and undergoing a  makeover.

"We don't want people to say things like 'skanky,'" Carey's rep, Marvet  Britto, tells the paper.

To that end, the self-dubbed Mimi has befriended Vogue editor André Leon  Talley, who previously worked his transforming touch on Donald Trump's model  wife, Melania. He's reportedly lending a well-manicured hand to get the Grammy  winner out of her rainbow- and butterfly-festooned ensembles and into classy  couture. 

"Mariah always said she would love André's guidance and wisdom," says Britto,  "and when I called him to help her, he was thrilled and said, 'I would be  honored.'"

But Talley is quick to point out that he and Carey are just friends who  "inspire" one another -- he's not working for her nor is he trying to mold her  into a "style icon."

"I take no credit in having anything to do with Mariah's next role as a  fashion diva," he defensively tells the Post. "I am not a fashion steward. I am  not there making fashion decisions for Mariah."

Still, it was the towering Talley who secured the body-hugging,  décolletage-heavy black Alexander McQueen gown with a flared white hemline Carey  donned for Oprah's Legends Ball in Santa Barbara over the weekend (he  also accompanied her to the fete). 

Fashion mavens may have noticed the frock bore an uncanny resemblance to the  one worn by Mrs. Trump to the Costume Institute bash earlier this month and on  the front of Vogue in February. That wasn't a coincidence.

"She saw the [Vogue] cover I did with Melania and she said, 'I want the same  dress,'" Talley recounts. "I made the phone call and it happened and Mariah paid  for the dress." 

According to Britto, André is helping the big-lunged chanteuse mend "broken  relationships with fashion houses," who were apparently ticked off that the  designs they'd loan her would end up "shorter or not worn right." (Perhaps if  Carey avoids making skin-revealing alterations in the future, she won't have to  cough up her own cash for the couture.)

"She has an incredible sense of style, but then she went out in outfits like  cutoff shorts and tank tops," explains her publicist, who fingers Mariah's  former minions for her endlessly mocked fashion foibles. "It was her old team of  people telling her to wear that."