Talk about your whirlwind courtship. Just days after Renée Zellweger's rep told People magazine that she  was in the "very early stages" of getting to know Kenny Chesney, the couple has pledged to stay together until  they die.

We know, we know. We didn't see it coming either.

The sylphlike Oscar winner, who was recently linked to Irish  singer-songwriter Damien Rice following her failed romance with White Stripes  frontman Jack White, married the cowboy-hatted country crooner on Monday in a  quickie 15-minute ceremony on the island of St. John in the Virgin Islands, her  rep confirmed in a statement.

According to the Insider, a female preacher performed the surprise vow  swapping (the first for both), which took place in front of a select group of  friends and family. The blushing bride was outfitted in her customary Carolina  Herrera, while the groom opted to go barefoot (no cold feet there, it seems).  The twosome is said to have laughed a little and cried a little during the "I  do's." A reception was reportedly held Monday night at Chesney's  house at Peter Bay, a swanky gated community on the island.

So, how the heck did this happen? Good question. The newlyweds apparently met  at the Concert of Hope tsunami benefit in January and began an under-the-radar  friendship. They went public with their romance little more than a week ago,  when Zellweger, 36, planted a smooch on Chesney, 37, after delivering a  margarita onstage during his concert in Jacksonville, Florida.

A few days later, the Southern sweethearts were spied "laughing and  canoodling" at a Nashville restaurant, according to the Tennessean.

"She's some kind of cocktail waitress," Chesney told the paper through his  rep. "I figured lunch was the least I could do for a tip."

He later gushed to People, "She's really, really cute."

It seemed destined that Chesney would eventually hook up with Zellweger. Not  only has he called her his favorite actress, but he penned the hit song "You Had  Me from Hello" after seeing her in "Jerry Maguire."

"When [Renée] said that in the movie, it was like instant. I said, 'That  could be a wonderful song,'" he told USA Weekend in 1999. "There's only so many  ways you can say 'I love you' and 'I hate you.'"

While we wish the happy couple well, we are a bit concerned over the  similarities between their sprint into wedded bliss and that of Julia Roberts and Lyle Lovett. You'll recall that back in 1993,  the "Pretty Woman" megastar and the floppy-haired country singer  also married in a shocker ceremony sans shoes. They filed for divorce 21 months  later.

But hey, we're probably just being negative. Mazel tov!