Is it just me, or does it feel like every bozo who can get a film made is  invited back for a commentary track, whether or not he or she has anything to  say? Seriously, what do the director of "The Pacifier" or the cast of "King's Ransom" have to say to me besides, "Sorry for making  such a crappy film"? Almost every new release has some kind of behind-the-scenes  featurette (usually  simple promotional puff pieces with the director  praising the cast to the heavens and actors gushing over their director) and  deleted scenes, many of them cut for self-apparent reasons. When everything is  promised to be a "special edition," how can we find something genuinely  special?

Here are a few nominations for supplements that give meaning to the "special"  in a special edition, both large and small. The following list is neither  exhaustive nor definitive. It overlooks the inspired and engaging commentary  tracks in the sea of droning audio extras and the many fine documentaries that  put the standard promotional supplements to shame. Rather, this is a sampling of  the unique supplements, unexpected extras and creative uses of the digital  format. They offer the kinds of goodies that can make the supplements essential,  exciting or simply enterprisingly entertaining elements of the digital  experience. 

The edition: Criterion CollectionThe  feature: "The Max Fischer Players Present & "What's so  special: The high-school theatrical troupe, led by extracurricular  impresario Max Fischer (Jason Schwartzman), was reunited for a trio of  60-second theatrical interpretations of three films: "Out of Sight," "Armageddon" and "The Truman Show." Part spoof, part celebration, part  reunion, they were created as high-concept ads for the 1999 MTV Movie Awards and  wound up recapturing the skewed comic sensibility of "Rushmore." You can find  other MTV Movie Award comedy bits on "Mission Impossible II" (Tom Cruise is a real trouper in Ben Stiller's hilarious spoof, but John Woo's deadpan performance steals the segment) and "Lord  of the Rings: The Fellowship of the Ring -- Extended Edition" (starring Jack Black as Frodo, who reveals what happened to the ring  after a night of binge drinking).

The edition: MGMThe feature: "Gumnaam"  music video What's so special: In the film's opening,  culture rebel Enid (Thora Birch) pops a bootleg tape into her VCR and a blast of  Bollywood musical madness fills the soundtrack. Despite the claims on the DVD  box, it's not a music video but a scene from the 1965 production "Gumnaam," a  mad musical number with surf guitars, Mexican trumpets and shimmy-and-shake  dancers in Zorro masks who throw themselves into the crazed choreography with  more energy than grace. You can see the complete nightclub-a-go-go spectacle in  all its kitschy glory in the supplements. More than addictive, the surreal slice  of '60s Bollywood silliness is the kind of clip you'll be breaking out to show  friends who think they've seen it all. 

The edition: Criterion CollectionThe  feature: Unreleased trailerWhat's so special:  "Trailer" is hardly an accurate description for the nine-minute production that  Orson Welles created as a promotional film for his playful  free-form cinematic essay on the nature of stories, narrative sleight of hand,  and fakery. Welles shoots brand-new sequences, reshuffles snippets of film  footage into entirely new patterns and spins a new take on the material out of  his strange new concoction. It's unlike any film promo you've ever seen. It's  more like a companion film from a master filmmaker let loose in the cutting  room, and it never saw the light day. The fledgling distributor of "F for Fake"  found it unusable and lost the original. All that exists now is the  black-and-white video dub preserved here, an all-too-rare relic from one of the  greatest filmmakers of the American cinema.

The edition: Warner Bros.The feature:  Commentary by director Christopher NolanWhat's so  special: Nolan made his reputation by fracturing the timelines of his  films (notably "Memento") and reconstructing them into a dramatically  ingenious structure that redefines notions of cause and effect. So is it any  surprise that with "Insomnia," a rare Nolan film that unfolds from start to  finish with nary a narrative hiccup, he used his commentary track to reorder the  film into its production chronology, presenting each scene in the order it was  shot? It may sound like a high-concept gimmick, but it turns into an eye-opening  peek into the physical realities of film production, and Nolan's comments speak  volumes about the relationship between the creative and the production process.  

The edition: Original Warner releaseThe  feature: "Follow the White Rabbit"What's so  special: Turn your movie-viewing experience interactive with this  cue-laced option that allows you, at key points in "The Matrix," to jump to  mini-featurettes that show behind-the-scenes footage from given scenes. These  aren't traditional documentaries but surprisingly efficient bite-sized glimpses  at movie making, edited in a rush of visual information and driving music  without narration or interviews to slow the survey. They are the perfect  interaction between film viewing and cinematic deconstruction and oddly  appropriate for the ultimate digital dreamscape movie. You can find the very  same docu-nuggets on the "Ultimate Matrix" mega-set but only as stand-alone  supplements -- you need the original single-disc release to see them woven into  an interactive experience.

The edition: Columbia/Sony Pictures (non-Superbit editions  only)The feature: Ten-minute Film SchoolWhat's  so special: The most idiosyncratic production documentaries on DVD, Robert Rodriguez's "10-minute Film School" featurettes are  swift, practical, to-the-point tutorials in low-budget filmmaking. They are  constructed almost entirely from raw footage with Rodriguez explaining the hows  and whys of what you see. "Think of a creative way to get around the problem,  and keep the money in your pocket," is his motto, and he shows you his  solutions, from the dollar-conscious, do-it-yourself guerrilla filmmaking of "El  Mariachi" to the budget-stretching cost-cutting techniques applied on studio  productions "Desperado" and "Once Upon a Time in Mexico." Full of passion and  humor, they just might inspire you to go out and make your own film. 

The edition: Criterion CollectionThe  feature: Excerpts from the 1966 French TV program "Jean Renoir: Le  Patron."What's so special: One of the greatest gifts that  Criterion has bestowed on American cineastes are the archival TV interviews with  directors, actors and other film artists that were dug out of French TV vaults  and preserved on DVD. Jacques Rivette's epic interviews with Jean Renior for the  art program "Cinema de Notre Temps" ("Cinema of Our Times") is perhaps the  greatest of these: long, in-depth conversations with the still lively and  perceptive artist discussing his art and greatest achievement "Rules of the  Game." Further interviews are collected on the discs "Boudu Saved from  Drowning," "The Golden Coach," "French Cancan" and "Elena and Her Men," and it's  not just limited to "le Patron" Renoir. Rare interviews with directors old  (Henri-George Clouzot and Jean-Pierre Melville near the end of their respective  careers) and young (Francois Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard in the throes of their early films) can be  found on dozens of Criterion discs. 

The edition: 10th Anniversary Special Limited Edition  (Artisan/Lions Gate)The feature: The Sundance Institute's  Filmmaker's Lab What's so special: Before he shot a foot of  film for "Reservoir Dogs," Quentin Tarantino work-shopped his script and  received a crash course in film direction at the Sundance Institute in the  summer of 1991. Tucked away in the "Class of '92" section of disc two is a video  record of his graduation exercise. In one scene, Steve Buscemi plays the Michael Madsen role in a  conversation entirely rewritten for the finished film. In another, Buscemi is  Mr. Pink to Tarantino's Mr. White (Harvey Keitel's role) in the warehouse. Tarantino isn't  merely learning to move the camera and direct actors, he's mastering the  rudiments of scene construction and dialogue. These raw scenes are rough drafts.  A simple comparison of the run-on practice scenes to the finished film -- with  its finely honed dialogue and creatively juggled storyline -- show just what an  apt pupil he was.

The edition: Criterion CollectionThe  feature: The "Love Conquers All" VersionWhat's so  special: Sure, the reason to get this amazing three-disc set is to see  Terry Gilliam's definitive cut of his cult masterpiece. But  as you witness (via the commentary and supplementary documentaries) the epic  battle Gilliam waged with Universal Studio executives to preserve his vision,  there's a perverse fascination with the disc's last laugh: the bastardized  94-minute cut that Universal commissioned to tone down the bleak satire,  complete with a happy ending. Haphazardly edited and nearly incomprehensible,  with essential plot details deleted along with most of Gilliam's more inspired  satirical touches and visual flourishes, this version never saw the light of  theaters, but it did play on TV. One wonders what an unsuspecting channel surfer  must have made of this bizarre mess. Think of it as the ultimate anti-director's  cut: a nightmarish peek into what we might have been stuck with had the studio  won the battle. It's somehow fitting that this print looks and sounds as drab  and dull as the re-mastered original is vibrant, bright, and crisp.

The edition: New Line's Four-disc Extended  EditionsThe feature: The AppendicesWhat's so  special: More than a simple "making of" documentary, these are Peter Jackson's answer to J.R.R. Tolkien's "The  Silmarillion": three exhaustive and intelligent documentaries. Designed to be  either browsed through by chapter (with interactive supplements) or viewed as  veritable documentary mini-series, it is more properly seen as three parts of a  16-plus-hour epic that runs even longer than the extended versions of the movie  played end to end. The chapter on Gollum alone, a fascinating invitation into  the process of sculpting a fully fleshed-out CGI character and a tribute to the  skills of Andy Serkis, could stand alone as a feature-length piece.  Yet that is merely one stop on the amazing journey that begins with the novel  and its inspirations and concludes with a kind of afterward as the Fellowship of  the production gives their farewells after the unprecedented 18-month shoot.  Follow the film from condensing the novel and scripting the screen adaptation  through visualizing the world, constructing the sets and props, shooting the  production and creating the special effects, editing, scoring, mixing and  finally release. It's a production for everyone, from curious viewers to true  fanatics, and a testament to an astounding physical and creative accomplishment.  

The edition: Columbia/Sony Pictures Limited  EditionThe feature: "Clock"What's so  special: Click the clock icon on the disc two menu, take the  multiple-choice test, and when you get to the pictures of a woman changing a  tire, click them off in reverse order. Then sit back and watch the film  reconstructed in chronological order, starting with the credits running  backwards. It's no surprise that the resulting film is singularly flat and  lacking in dramatic tension. It's more interesting as a technical exercise: It  proves just how effective Christopher Nolan's ingenious structure is in  creating tragedy from the story.

Sean Axmaker is a film critic for the Seattle Post-Intelligencer and a  DVD columnist for the Internet Movie Database and is a regular contributor to  Amazing Stories, Asian Cult Cinema, Greencine.com and StaticMultimedia.com. His  reviews and essays are featured in the recently released "Scarecrow Movie  Guide."

What is your favorite DVD extra? Let us know at 