One local is fed up with these Bostonian celebs giving  his home town a bad name

By Chris CoakleySpecial to MSN Entertainment

I gotta admit: It's great to be a Bostonian right now. The recent success of  our sports teams -- the Super Bowl Champion Patriots (three outta the last  four!) and the World Series-winning Red Sox -- has given Boston a huge dose of  pride and bloated self-esteem. 

Yup, we're riding a huge wave of national exposure. While I would never  apologize for such a thing, I realize certain individuals are downright  nauseated with all things Boston. Well, if it makes you feel any better, take  solace knowing that some Bostonians are sick of their fellow Bostonians -- most  notably, numerous smug individuals in the entertainment industry. Maybe it's  just me, but it seems a gross number of Hollywood jackasses are now parading  around wearing Red Sox hats and humming the words to "Dirty Water." Not to  mention that Hollywood executives cast New York-bred Jimmy Fallon, who mocked Boston for years in "Saturday  Night Live" skits, as a Red Sox lover in "Fever Pitch." Brutal.

With that in mind, and to exorcise some demons, here is my list of the most  overexposed/embarrassing Bostonians. Let's start with a stroll down memory lane  and a boy band that made being from Boston about as cool as wearing a Speedo to  the company picnic.

New Kids on the BlockAfter the glam-rock bands  of the '80s basically partied themselves into a coffin or rehab, and a few years  before the Seattle grunge scene exploded, there was a dark period of time when  Boston natives New Kids on the Block, unfortunately, dominated the pop-culture  landscape. With their bubblegum lyrics and wholesome good looks, the New Kids on  the Block made 10-year-old girls swoon and everyone else drink heavily.

Believe it or not, the Catholic high school I attended in Boston was also  attended by a few members of the New Kids (although I believe only Joe McIntyre graduated). Occasionally, group members could be  spotted with their tutors picking up course work for the semester. Fortunately,  we were spared any Donnie Wahlberg sightings. I think Donnie considered  himself "too street" to attend an all-boy Catholic institution. But everyone  knew the real deal with Donnie. Despite the scattered peach fuzz on his face and  gross overuse of phrases like "Yeah boy" and "Peace out," it was obvious that  Donnie had the street credibility of Steve Urkel. 

Wondering what the New Kids are doing now? To his credit, after dropping the  gangsta persona, Donnie Wahlberg found commendable success in Hollywood as an  actor. 

(Story Continues On Next Page...)