Sara Bareilles, Interpol, Stone Sour, Robyn, Jerry Lee Lewis  

Am I the only one who gets Colbie Caillat and Sara Bareilles confused? Something about those  ladies with Francophonic names trips me up. Regardless, the latter releases  "Kaleidoscope Heart" this week. After spending nearly three years touring in  support of her major-label debut "Little Voice," which spawned the 2007 pop  smash "Love Song," the 30-year-old singer, pianist and songwriter is back with a  slew of new originals. Diehard fans have already heard several of these tunes  via a series of making-of Internet shorts that documented the recording process,  including "Uncharted," "Gonna Get Over You" and "Bluebird." And the punchy,  independent-minded "King of Anything," peppered with handclap accents and toots  of brass, is as insanely catchy as "Love Song," while sounding distinct in its  own right.

The cover art of Interpol's self-titled album looks like some kind  of god-awful screensaver from the late '90s—they might as well have stuck flying  toasters on the sleeve—but it's what's inside that counts, right? Mixed by Alan  Moulder (Nine Inch Nails, the Killers, Placebo), the band's fourth full-length finds them  back on indie label Matador and sounding more focused than on 2007's "Our Love  to Admire." Completed before the departure of longtime bassist Carlos Dengler,  the New York combo's new collection includes "Lights," a brooding anthem that  builds at an almost agonizingly slow pace toward its dramatic climax, and the  peppier, pulsating "Lights."

"Audio Secrecy," a play on the term "idiosyncrasy," is the title of the third  studio full-length by Stone Sour. The alt-metal quintet, which features  vocalist Corey Taylor and guitarist Jim Root (both of Slipknot) and drummer Roy Mayorga (formerly of Soulfly), garnered Grammy Award nominations for  Best Metal Performance two years in a row with selections from their previous  record, "Come What(ever) May." Once again working with producer Nick  Raskulinecz, Stone Sour recorded the album at Blackbird Studios in Nashville,  Tenn., during the city's historic flood earlier this year, which only heighted  the emotional intensity of the performances; Taylor has described the disc as  both darker and more melodic than their earlier work. The guys are currently in  the middle of a marathon North American tour, which concludes on Oct. 4 in  Madison, Wis..

Hooray for the Riff    Raff

Diminutive Swedish pop diva Robyn is dropping the second installment of her  promised trilogy of EPs. "Body Talk, Pt. 2" actually starts out in a more  cohesive manner than its idiosyncratic predecessor (which spawned the dance hit  "Dancing On My Own"), with slick electro ditties like "Love Kills" that make you  wonder what all the fuss over La Roux is about. But as the superlative eight-song  set progresses, our heroine gradually gets her freak on. Diplo lends an assist on  the jittery "Criminal Intent," while Snoop Dogg trades verses with her on "U Should Know  Better," and between those two tracks, Robyn definitely seems like a lady you  wouldn't want to piss off. Elsewhere, "We Dance to the Beat" features some of  the most oddball lyrics we've heard on a club-banger in ages, while the  "acoustic" rendition of "Indestructible" swathes the singer in a bed of lush  strings. Brava!

When it comes to being a badass, Robyn hasn't got a patch on "The Killer,"  rockabilly icon Jerry Lee Lewis. Now 74, the man responsible for  such incendiary hits as "Great Balls of Fire" and "Breathless" follows up his  2006 comeback "Last Man Standing" with "Mean Old Man." In addition to a title  tune penned by the legendary Kris Kristofferson, the disc also features a roster  of guests that makes Carlos Santana look positively friendless: Mick Jagger, Keith Richards, Ronnie Wood, Eric Clapton, Ringo Starr, Tim McGraw, Kid Rock, Slash, Sheryl Crow, Willie Nelson, John Mayer, John Fogerty and Jon Brion. And that's just on the standard, 10-song  edition. Pick up the deluxe package, and you'll find eight more tunes, featuring  contributions by Merle Haggard, Shelby Lynne, Gillian Welch, Solomon Burke, Mavis Staples, Robbie Robertson, and Nils Lofgren. With almost any other artist, we'd be  worried about the star getting lost in the shuffle, but The Killer has rarely  had trouble finding—and holding—the spotlight.

Dick Dale: "Guitar Legend: The Very Best of Dick    Dale" (listen)    

Bachman & Turner: "Bachman & Turner" (listen)    