Taylor Swift's song of forgiveness for Kanye: 'Ridiculous' or 'pure class'?

Sept. 13, 2010, 3:45 PM EST

A magnanimous move or a comically overwrought publicity stunt? That's the  question being asked in the wake of Taylor Swift's performance Sunday  night at the MTV Video Music Awards, where she debuted "Innocent," a song  dedicated to Kanye "I'mma Let You Finish" West,  who, as we all remember, interrupted her acceptance speech at last year's show.  

The doll-faced popster, sporting dramatic makeup, emotionally evocative bare  feet and an angelic white dress, belted out her new ditty after a quick replay  of Kanye's onstage award-jacking. 

"It's okay, life is a tough crowd,Thirty-two and still growing up  now...

Time turns flames to embers,You'll have new Septembers,Every one  of us has messed up, too (ohh),Minds change like the weather,I hope you  remember, Today is never too late, To be brand new (ohhhhhh)

It's all right, just wait and see,Your string of lights are bright to  me (oh!),Who you are is not where you've been,You're still an  innocent"

While the performance would have earned a, "It was a little pitchy, dawg,"  from Randy Jackson, there was no doubting  Swift's earnestness: She wants everyone to know she has graciously forgiven West  for ruining her big moment (granted, she was collecting a VMA, not, say, a  Pulitzer or even a Teen Choice award. Plus, the incident did give her career a  boost, but regardless ...). 

The critics, however, were not quite ready to let bygones be bygones.

"Ridiculous" and "pathetic," declared Gawker.  "Our eyes have never  rolled so hard," opined Zap2it.  

NPR was equally unimpressed with the  ditty, calling it "unintentionally uproarious." 

That, it turns out, was the nice part of the review: "The spectacle of an  insanely wealthy 20-year-old singer using the phrase 'who you are is not what  you did' to describe not a reformed criminal or a family member who grievously  erred and must be forgiven, but to describe someone she doesn't really know  whose only misdeed is rudeness at an awards show is just jaw-droppingly  self-involved, and adding 'you're still an innocent,' with its implications of  purity, borders on the creepy."

But Taylor still has her fans. Entertainment Weekly found the tune  "genuinely heartfelt," while Salon called it "a model of pure  class."

Kanye, meanwhile, had his own self-referential moment at the end of the show  with his song "Runaway," which included the thoughtful lyrics, "I always find  something wrong/You've been putting up with my s--- way too long ... Let's have  a toast for the d-----bags/Let's have a toast for the a------s/Let's have a  toast for the scumbags/Every one of them that I know/Let's have a toast for the  jerk---s ... Baby, I got a plan/Run away fast as you can."

Which apparently isn't what happened when West met up with Swift before the  VMAs kicked off. 

"Kanye got word she was going to do the song about him and wanted to talk it  out," a source tells Us Weekly of the apparent  tête-à-tête, which reportedly took place in Swift's dressing room. "Taylor felt  bad. They talked and everything is good between them now. But they promised to  keep what they spoke about between them."  

Earlier in the day, Kanye tweeted that he knew his beloved  mother was looking down on him from heaven: "I want to make her so happy  today."

Sure, that's a nice thought. But we're guessing that from whatever cloud she  was floating on, his mom was saying, "Enough already. Can we all just move on  from this now? I have better things to do, like get ready for my hot date with  Rudolph Valentino." 

What did you think of Taylor's performance? Was her warbled forgiveness  divine or overdone? Tell us in the comments!