Take Two: Sara Bareilles 

Sept. 7, 2010, 3:33 PM EST

It's a good thing Sara Bareilles believes in second chances. Her  first attempt at learning to play the piano when she was 9 years old was  short-lived. 'I quit to be in the Girl Scouts," she says.

Bareilles never returned to formal lessons, but the singer-songwriter always  remembered that sitting at the piano felt like spending time with a "sweet,  special friend." As time wore on, that 'friend" helped her create "Love Song,"  her 2007 breakthrough hit, and has guided her through the creation of her second  album, "Kaleidoscope Heart," just  released.

For "Heart," she wanted a more "aggressive" sound than that found on her  major-label debut, "Little Voice," so she turned to producer Neal Avron, best  known for his work with Fall Out Boy and New Found Glory. After working through a crippling  writer's block brought on by her own expectations of how to duplicate the  success of "Little Voice," she found herself beginning to experiment more:  writing a tune or two on guitar, working out horn arrangements. The result is an  album that maintains the melodic charms of "Little Voice" but is more confident  and adventurous. The first single, "King of Anything," is already a mainstay on  Adult Top 40 radio.

Bareilles, who does a terrific, sultry, slowed-down version of Beyoncé's "Single Ladies" (and brags she has the  video's hand motion down, too) talks to MSN Music about what solo activity she  particularly enjoys, assures us that she's not a man-hater and talks about her  most unusual guest on her new album. 

Sara Bareilles: I'm not a very good co-writer; I never have been. I enjoy it  in the sense of collaboration -- I've met some really lovely people and had a  good time -- but I come out with material that I don't feel that connected to.  ... I'm such an autobiographical writer. The songs for me are very much like  diary entries, and it feels strange to share that with someone.

It usually feels like this big old blank canvas. I don't ever feel like it  doesn't. It's there to listen and to help me articulate, and sometimes it works  and sometimes it doesn't. It always feels like some kind of sanctuary, so if  anything sucks or if I'm in a bad mood or the day is horrible or I feel  whatever, it's sort of there to be my companion to get through that.

I'd just started to share the music for the first time [with the] label,  management and band; I just started to see everyone giving me their feedback,  which is what they were supposed to do, but then realizing that was kind of  shaking me up a little bit. I was realizing, "OK, here it goes," and so it  begins again, where you open yourself back up.

It felt like a channeling experience. I wrote it really quickly. It was the  same way that 'Love Song" came down, and it felt very true and like I needed to  say that. I knew it was going to be the first single.

It's an old, old interview off the BBC. That song came out so much darker  than I had originally thought it would. At the last minute we wrote the musical  interlude. It sounded beautiful, but very theatrical, like a soap opera scene or  something. It didn't feel complete. I was thinking we could sample an old movie.  I love "The Birds" by Alfred Hitchcock, and we were looking online and we  stumbled across this interview, and that quote was the perfect length, the  perfect sentiment, so it felt very serendipitous that I found that.

I consider myself a feminist, but not in the man-hating way. I really felt  firsthand the struggles that one encounters as a female, especially in the music  industry. It is such a boys club, and, I felt, especially getting started, that  I had to kick and scream to be heard, and I [was] excited to be around other  women who have probably experienced the same thing, just to see how everybody  else conducts their business. I'm usually the only girl -- my entire crew and my  entire band is all male -- so I like the idea of being around some other female  energy.

Melinda Newman is the former West Coast bureau chief for Billboard  Magazine. She has covered music and entertainment for the Los Angeles Times, the  Washington Post, the Associated Press, MSN, AOL Music, Hitfix.com, Variety,  People Country and other outlets. Recent interviews include Taylor Swift, Susan  Sarandon, Pink, Jeff Bridges, Brad Paisley, Foo Fighters, Katy Perry and Carly  Simon.