



      Thursday, November 9, 2000
        | Print this story
        
                  SPURS 91, LAKERS 81
	  		
       		Lakers Still Dome-Struck
	  		


            
			 Troubles in San Antonio continue, but Jackson not ready to panic after
91-81 loss to Spurs drops defending champions to .500.By TIM BROWN, Times Staff Writer
	          
	  		

              



     SAN ANTONIO--OK, so it looks bad. The Lakers have a two-game

Shaquille O'Neal made only five of 13 shots from the floor, despite being guarded much of the time by the Spurs' 6-foot-7 Malik Rose.Associated Press


losing streak and it'll be at least Sunday before there is anything they can do about it, since they don't play again until then.

     And no matter what happens in the coming weeks, or the
coming months, there will be all these losses to the San Antonio Spurs to answer for,
eight in nine games including the playoffs, and six in a row at the Alamodome.

     The Lakers lost, 91-81, on Wednesday night, matching their
10-point loss in Houston the night before with a very similar one here.

     But the Lakers weren't angry. Not at all. Disappointed,
maybe, because the offense still isn't even near where they'd like it, despite Kobe
Bryant's season-high 32 points. Dissatisfied, certainly, with three defeats in six
games.

     But calm.

     Must be the tai chi.

     "We're a team that builds momentum," Coach Phil Jackson said
just before gathering himself for his push to the luxury bus parked outside.

     First though, from behind a spotlight, a voice came to
Jackson. The question, is he worried about the 3-3 record, caused Jackson to smile. His
mustache curled. The fuzz under his lip tightened. He answered, finally, "You want me to
laugh?"



			Audio Commentary
			
		

	
		  Laker F Robert Horry: "We gave away too many opportunities."
	
		  Laker Coach Phil Jackson: "We had too many turnovers."
		  Spur F Tim Duncan "The bench gives us a great lift."
		  Spur G Avery Johnson "Big total team effort."
	


     When he received no answer, he continued, "I predicted after
10 games we would be around 5-5. So we expected this."

     They played better. They still missed a lot of shots. They
still had too many turnovers. Shaquille O'Neal shot poorly for a second consecutive game.
They haven't played a thorough game since opening night, and the more often Portland loses
the less thorough even that looks.

     "I messed it up," said O'Neal, who made five of 13
field-goal attempts and three of 10 free-throw attempts for 13 points. "That was my
fault."

     This, however, was at least as much about San
Antonio.

     Tim Duncan scored 22 points and David Robinson scored 16.
Derek Anderson also scored 16, but they barely count since he was the one getting lit up
by Bryant most of the night. 

     The Spurs outscored the Lakers, 18-2, to start the second
quarter, which pretty well answered a 12-0 Laker run at the conclusion of the first. While
the Lakers drew to within 56-55 midway through the third quarter, they lost touch again by
the end of the quarter. Robert Horry made three three-pointers in nine possessions
spanning the end of the third and start of the fourth quarters, and still the Spurs could
not be pushed.

     "It was what I expected," Spur Coach Gregg Popovich said.
"It was a very aggressive game, very hard fought.

     "It was a good team effort against the best team in the
league."

     Finally, it had a little something to do with the
officiating. The Lakers did not shoot a free throw in the second half.

     "I don't understand that," Jackson said.

     There was a sense among the Lakers, however, that they found
something here. Even as they rued their missed shots and their clunky offensive rhythm,
they maintained they played harder than they did against the Rockets. They insisted that
what is broken can be mended, both as a team and individually.

     "Been there before," said Rick Fox, who missed six of seven
shots from the floor. "It's nothing new. Not the first time. Won't be the last time. In a
career of percentages, you just ride the wave.

     "We're searching for it. It's not a shooting thing. When
we're playing, those shots go down."

     O'Neal passed the time before the bus departed by petting
Benoit Benjamin's fur coat. Benjamin was wearing it at the time. It seemed to lift
O'Neal's spirits.

     Bryant, not far away, said he was content that his 31 shots
came in the flow of the offense. With O'Neal missing regularly from close in--"my
chippies," as he so fondly calls them--Bryant went to his one-on-one game. He beat
Anderson and then Sean Elliott regularly, particularly in the first half, when he scored
24 points.

     "I was just shooting right over [Anderson's] hands," Bryant
said. "I didn't think he was capable of getting to my jump shots. Then, with Sean's knees,
I didn't think he could stop and recover."

     Even with Bryant scoring, and even with Horace Grant making
his 15-footers, the Spurs would not budge from their strategy to smother O'Neal.

     "They did a good job of plugging the lane," Bryant said.
"They're always great at that."

     The Lakers did what they could while arguing that too many
players still don't get the triangle. O'Neal, who had those 13 shots in 44 minutes,
mentioned again that they have to play more intelligently, and added that he figured they
would soon. Jackson too saw signs.

     "We played harder," Jackson said. "We played better. We
played with more intensity, and that helps."



Thursday, November 9, 2000
        | Print this story
        