 
              The Mission
                 The mission of the Los Angeles 
                Times Family Fund, a fund of the McCormick Tribune Foundation, 
                is to improve the lives of disadvantaged children and youth in 
                Los Angeles, Orange, Riverside, San Bernardino and Ventura counties.Each 
                year, the Los Angeles Times Family Fund conducts three fundraising 
                campaigns – the Summer Camp Campaign, the Holiday Campaign 
                and the Donor Advised Giving Program. Los Angeles Times readers 
                and employees, foundations, corporations and concerned citizens 
                make contributions to the campaigns. Funds raised are matched 
                50 cents on the dollar by the McCormick Tribune Foundation.*
                Donations and matching funds are granted through the Los Angeles 
                Times Family Fund to youth-serving nonprofit organizations that 
                provide food, clothing, shelter, early literacy and arts programs, 
                summer camp scholarships, services for developmentally delayed 
                and disabled children and programs to prevent youth violence, 
                teen pregnancy and drug abuse. The Times and the Foundation absorb 
                all administrative and fundraising costs, so 100% of all donations 
                and the entire matching funds are awarded to nonprofit agencies.Since
                its inception, the Los Angeles Times Family Fund has awarded
                over 550 youth-focused grants totaling more than $9.1 million.
                 In addition, the Family Fund has conducted fundraising campaigns
                
                and awarded $3.4 million in grants to organizations that provide
                 assistance and relief to victims of September 11, 2001 and the
                
                Southern California wildfires in October 2003.
                To learn more about the Los Angeles Times Family Fund, call 1-800 
                LA TIMES, ext. 75771. 
                Summer Camp Campaign
                Since 1954, Los Angeles Times readers and employees, foundations, 
                corporations and concerned citizens like you have pooled their 
                resources to send over 380,000 disadvantaged children and youth 
                to summer camp. By providing camp scholarship donations, you help 
                kids, ages 7-17, develop a sense of confidence and control over 
                their lives. Camp is a place where a positive perspective can 
                finally be discovered – an experience thousands of young 
                people will carry with them long after the last nature hike, sing-a-long 
                or marshmallow roast.
              For more information, click 
              here or call 1-800 LA TIMES, ext. 75771. 
              Holiday Campaign
                In 
                2000, the Los Angeles Times Family Fund, a fund of the McCormick 
                Tribune Foundation, launched an annual Holiday Campaign to raise 
                funds to improve the lives of disadvantaged children and youth. 
                By contributing to the Holiday Campaign, you help low-income children 
                by meeting their most basic needs...food, clothing and shelter. 
                In addition, your donation provides early literacy and arts programs, 
                services for developmentally delayed and disabled children and 
                programs to prevent youth violence, teen pregnancy and drug abuse.
              For more information, click 
              here or call 1-800 LA TIMES, ext. 75771. 
              Donor Advised Giving Program
                 In 2003, the 
                Los Angeles Times Family Fund piloted the Donor Advised Giving
                  Program (DAG), an innovative online fundraising program. Nonprofit
                 
                organizations apply to become DAG participants and selected organizations
                  that meet the Family Fund’s giving guidelines participate.
                The McCormick Tribune Foundation matches contributions 50 cents
                on the dollar.* Since its inception, more than $339,000 in donations
                and matching funds have been granted to youth-serving nonprofit
                organizations.
              For more information, click 
              here or call 1-800 LA TIMES, ext. 75771.
                *The McCormick Tribune Foundation sets an annual fundraising matching 
                cap. Top 