Greed motivated tech-stock buyers in the late '90s. Fear is behind the current rush into bonds. Now, as then, raw emotion is driving investors. It's a dangerous thing to have in common.


                            
                            
                            
                                
                                
                                
                                    At the end of the dot-com stock boom in late 1999 and early 2000, it was harder and harder to find someone to say that buying into that mania was a mistake.
There were plenty of Wall Street veterans who saw a catastrophe in the making. But many increasingly felt like idiots voicing that opinion publicly because they had been wrong for so long.
The technology-dominated Nasdaq composite stock index had soared an average of 40% a year from 1995 through 1999. The tech bull market looked like it might well go on forever.
                                    
                                        
                                            Get a daily snapshot of business, financial and technology news delivered to your inbox with our Business Daily newsletter. Sign up »
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                
But they never do. That one ended in disaster with the crash of 2000-2002.
A decade later, the buying binge of the moment is in the bond market. Two investments could hardly be more dissimilar than dot-com stocks and boring bonds. But now, as then, raw emotion is driving investors. It's a dangerous thing to have in common.
Also now, as then, the magnitude of the buying makes it a difficult force to oppose. It's always more comfortable to close your eyes and go with the flow.
The emotion driving the bond market's continuing rally is the flip side of what drove the tech mania. Jumping on the runaway dot-com train in 1999 was all about unbridled greed. For bond investors, the motivation is fear — that is, fear of losing.
After two devastating stock bear markets in one decade, many Americans no longer have any stomach for equities. Real estate also has been a bust. And cash accounts pay nothing.
The bond market was a refuge waiting to be discovered, or rediscovered. In early 2009, as the economy crashed, individual investors began to aggressively buy government, corporate and municipal bonds. They haven't stopped.
Net cash inflows to bond mutual funds reached $156 billion in the first half of this year, on top of the record $375 billion that flooded into the funds in all of 2009, industry data show.
By contrast, stock mutual funds in total have taken in a paltry net $9 billion in new money this year.
The world's biggest bond fund, the $234-billion Pimco Total Return fund, by itself is taking in about $1 billion in fresh cash every week.
There's a herd mentality about bonds, but usually the herd is chasing hot returns, as it was in the tech sector a decade ago. But bond buyers have no illusions about reaping massive returns on fixed-income securities. Their expectations are downright pedestrian.
Many investors are simply afraid that even the current mid- to low-single-digit annual interest rates on bonds could shrink further if they wait to buy, should the economy worsen and the Federal Reserve makes another major push to drive rates down across the board.
Of course, investors themselves are driving down interest rates as they shovel cash into the bond market. Buyers essentially wind up in a bidding war for the securities, which in turn allows the issuers of the debt — Uncle Sam, municipalities and companies — to drop the rates they pay to borrow.
The Treasury this week sold $37 billion in five-year notes at an annualized yield of just 1.8%. When the government sold five-year notes last December, it paid a yield of about 2.7%.McDonald's Corp. this week raised $450 million by selling 10-year bonds that pay a yield of 3.5%. The company's bankers said that was the lowest interest rate on any 10-year corporate issue since at least 1995.
Yields also are down sharply over the last year in the tax-free municipal bond market, including on California bonds. In the muni market, continuing demand has collided with falling supply as many state and local governments have curtailed new debt sales amid severe budget woes.
New issuance of tax-free bonds nationwide fell 22% in the first half of the year from the same period of 2009, according to research firm Municipal Market Advisors.