Zsa Zsa Gabor Develops Infection in Hospital

The 93-year-old actress is not responding well to treatments since breaking her hip.

8:29 AM PDT, August 10, 2010


							
                            
                            
                                
                                
                                
                                    LOS ANGELES -- Zsa Zsa Gabor has developed an infection and will remain hospitalized indefinitely at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, according to her publicist.
Doctors had hoped to release Gabor, 93, this week but the actress' publicist John Blanchette says an infection changed those plans.
Gabor has been hospitalized since July 17 after a fall at her Bel Air home. She suffered a broken hip, and had to have hip replacement surgery. Gabor was in critical condition for a time after the surgery, and even had to receive a blood transfusion.
Her husband, Prince Frederic von Anhalt, said over the weekend that Gabor seemed depressed.
During her stay at Ronald Reagan UCLA Medical Center, Gabor had a bad reaction to morphine, but her condition improved when she was switched to a different pain medication, Blanchette said. She had been "bleeding excessively" according to Blanchette, who said it was possibly caused by the morphine she was taking.
She was also said to have gone into shock.
                                    
                                        
                                            Sign up for KTLA 5 Breaking News Email Alerts
                                        
                                    
                                
                                
                                
Von Anhalt, reportedly purchased a $25,000 hospital bed and was arranging for in-home care.
Some reports about her condition said that she was unresponsive and unable to eat.
But her daughter, Constance Francesca Hilton, said her mother was doing fine.
Hilton said in a statement that her mother was "adjusting to the medication and healing process" and that, "There are no surprises."
"She is not in a coma. She is not on any kind of death watch. She is responsive and on medications. All vital signs are still going strong, and she is talking."
Gabor, a sex symbol of the 1950s and 1960s, was watching her favorite television game show when she tumbled out of bed while trying to answer the telephone.
She has had to use a wheelchair after being partially paralyzed in a 2002 car accident. She was trying to reach her wheelchair to get out of bed but its brake wasn't on and it moved away, spilling her out of the bed, Blanchette said.
                                
                            
        				