Big Bear Lake: New water attractions ratchet up thrill factor

Need a little summer adrenaline rush? Big Bear Lake seems perfectly poised to provide a fix with two novel attractions that will keep Southern California visitors and locals cool and a little amazed — or maybe even dazed.

Cable Park: Think of this as zip-lining on water, or wake-boarding without the boat. A cable pulley system between two 20-foot towers pulls boarders on a ride of about 500 feet across the water. Owner Desi Hauer said in a release that the ride works for “beginners who want to learn the sport, to advanced riders who want to hone their skills.”

Water-skiers, wake-skaters (boards without the foot straps)  and knee-boarders are welcome at the park in Metcalf Bay. The cost is $25 per hour, $40 for two hours and $60 for a half-day. The Cable Park is at Pleasure Point Marina, 603 Landlock Landing Road;  (909) 556-3345.

Jet boat rides:  The scream factor is high on this ride, which is more roller coaster than boat tour. The star of the show is something called a New Zealand-style jet boat, which holds 12 passengers.

“This boat can do just about anything without flipping over,” said Big Bear Lake spokesman Dan McKernan.

During a 30-minute tour of the lake, the boat dips and twists and finishes with a 180-degree spin. The cost is $29 for adults and $19 for children 12 and younger. The boat, operated by Big Bear Parasail, leaves from the Pine Knot Landing, 439 Pine Knot Blvd.;  (909) 866-4359.

— Mary Forgione, Los Angeles Times Daily Travel & Deal blogger

Photo: A wake-boarder takes off on a ride at the new Cable Park at Big Bear Lake. Credit: Dan McKernan


                    This entry was posted
                                        on Thursday, July 29, 2010 at 4:54 pm by Mary Forgione 
                    and is filed under Big Bear,  California,  Family & Kids,  News, Tips & Advice,  Summer.
                    You can follow any responses to this entry through the RSS 2.0 feed.

                                            You can leave a comment, or trackback from your own site.

                    
                