With unofficial Florida tally complete, Bush campaign urges Dems to back off

Bush leads Gore by 327 votes


TALLAHASSEE, Florida (CNN) -- George W. Bush's presidential campaign, convinced the Texas governor has won Florida following a county-by-county ballot recount, Friday urged the campaign of Vice President Al Gore to cease its talk of legal challenges to the Florida vote.



The Associated Press reported an unofficial recount of Florida's presidential balloting, completed early Friday, shows Bush leading Gore by 327 votes out of nearly 6 million cast on Tuesday. The original count gave Bush an advantage of 1,784 votes.



The Bush campaign claimed victory. 



"We had a vote on Tuesday that showed Gov. Bush won Florida," said Bush Communications Director Karen Hughes, standing in front of the governor's mansion in Austin. "We had a recount that showed Governor Bush has won Florida."



She pointed out that it would take a bit longer -- at least until November 17 -- to tabulate absentee ballots cast by Floridians overseas and postmarked by Election Day.



The AP tally is not the final word: State election officials must wait at least a week to certify vote totals that will determine which candidate gets Florida's 25 electoral votes. In addition, allegations of voting irregularities and the possibility of legal challenges could further delay the official outcome.



The Florida secretary of state's office released its own updated figures just after noon on Friday. With 65 of the state's 67 counties reporting, Bush had a 724-vote lead over Gore. The two counties missing from the final tally were Hernando and Palm Beach -- now ground zero in the Sunshine State voting dispute.


(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)


Ongoing angst over possible miscast votes and other voting irregularities in Palm Beach led Gore campaign Chairman William Daley to issue a statement Friday. 



"Contrary to claims being made this morning by the Bush campaign, this election is not over," Daley said. "Again, we want the true and accurate will of the people to prevail, and that means letting the legal system run its course. 



"If, at the end of that process, George Bush is the victor, we will respect the result."



Hughes, addressing a throng of reporters, said the scales were tilting the governor's way and the Democrats should respect the process.



"We certainly hope the Democrats would stop this talk of endless legal battles and still more recounts," she said. "I hope the vice president and his campaign officials would think through their responsibility to this country and to the process."



Both camps had representatives in Florida to monitor the recount. Gore sent Daley and former Secretary of State Warren Christopher; Bush's observer is former Secretary of State James Baker.


Republicans, Democrats dig trenches for possible battle


Baker said should the Gore campaign's demands for continued recounts in several counties be honored, the risk of human error is magnified.



"The more often ballots are recounted, especially by hand, the more likely it is that human error can be introduced," he said. Baker hinted that the Bush campaign had suspicions about the dwindling gap between Bush and Gore, but would likely not raise questions about the new numbers because Bush was still ahead.



"Now, the Gore campaign is calling for yet another recount in selected, predominantly Democratic counties where there were large, unexplained swings in the their favor in the recount," Baker said.



"I understand personally," Baker added, "that it is frustrating to lose presidential elections by narrow margins." 



Two Republicans, he continued, lost close elections in the course of the last 40 years, but both, Richard M. Nixon in 1960, and Gerald Ford in 1976, put the "nation's interests first" and did not request recounts. Should the Gore camp not step back, Baker said, Bush's team would "vigorously oppose" all efforts to secure further recounts.



"To suggest that we should keep counting ballots that have been counted twice over and over again is not a fair position to take, and not a responsible position to take," he said.



Following Baker some minutes later in Tallahassee, Daley repeated his admonishment of the Bush campaign for tacitly declaring Bush the winner, and said the option to challenge the results in Palm Beach was still being held open.



"We continue to explore the possibilities of what can be done to remedy the unfairness of thousands of residents of Palm Beach County who believed they were voting for Al Gore, but had those votes calculated for Pat Buchanan," Daley said, adding, "Our legal team has determined that the ballot in Palm Beach County was unlawful."



"Calls for the declaration of a victor before all the votes are tabulated are inappropriate," the former Clinton cabinet member said, urging the Bush campaign to tone down its rhetoric. "Waiting is unpleasant for all of us, but suggesting the outcome of a vote is known before all the ballots are properly counted is inappropriate."


Gore quiet in Washington, Bush huddles in Texas


Gore returned to Washington on Friday and had no public events scheduled. Some close aides appeared to pull back just a bit from their willingness to mount legal challenges in Florida, with one saying he hoped such moves would not be necessary.



"Let's see what happens in the recount before talking about courts and legal challenges," a second senior Gore adviser said. 



Senior Democrats in Washington are virtually unanimous in the view that the Bush camp has been unseemly in publicly talking about a transition and naming Cabinet members before the Florida results are certified.



Bush was scheduled to meet with economic adviser Lawrence Lindsey and international policy adviser Condoleezza Rice later in the day in Austin, according to Hughes.



Still, as much as some Democrats would like to see a party brother in the White House, some voiced frustration with the ongoing uncertainty.



"I want Al Gore to win this election, But more than that, I want somebody to win this election," Sen. Robert Torricelli, D-New Jersey, said. "I would urge both Al Gore and George Bush to think of the country -- the continuity of government, its stability -- and avoid any collateral attacks on the process."



Earlier Friday, Hughes accused Democrats of "trying to change the rules because they don't like the outcome."



"But that's not the way we do things in America," she said. "We have laws. We have rules. Those laws and those rules were complied with in this election. And we can't just keep counting votes until Al Gore likes the outcome."



Christopher, however, said it was premature for Democrats to accept defeat. "Until the overseas votes come in, until there is an official count, this will not be concluded," he told CNN.



Results of the official recount were at least several days away.



Florida Secretary of State Katherine Harris said it could be as late as Tuesday -- a week after the election -- before the state certifies ballot results from  all counties.



It was unclear how many such ballots there are. The New York Times reported Friday that at least 13,000 ballots had been requested by Florida residents living overseas. 



The newspaper interviewed county election officials who said more than 5,000 overseas ballots had been received and counted while others will never be returned.



Gore supporters have repeatedly criticized the ballots in use in Palm Beach County as confusing, and the Gore campaign asked for a hand count of votes cast there and in three other counties -- Dade, Broward and Volusia.



Palm Beach County agreed to hand-count ballots in three precincts on Saturday.



In the meantime, a circuit judge issued a preliminary injunction barring Palm Beach County officials from certifying the final recount results until a hearing is held Tuesday.



That was in response to a legal challenge filed with the support of Democrats who say a poor ballot design in the county led some Gore supporters to inadvertently mark their ballots for Reform Party candidate Pat Buchanan.



In other cases, confused voters may have voted for both candidates, invalidating their ballots.



Palm Beach County election officials said 19,120 ballots were voided because they were double-punched. Apparently, many voters who realized a mistake in their first attempt and punched a second hole for their presidential choice, voting for both Gore and Buchanan.



The court order said the ballot was designed and printed in such a way that voters were deprived of their right to freely express their will.



Republicans, who expressed outrage at the Democratic tactics, suggested they might seek recounts in Iowa and Wisconsin, two states where Gore won narrowly.



"I hope they won't do it just out of retaliation," Christopher said. "I hope they'll only do it if they think it can make a difference in the long-term outcome."



Meanwhile, Gore's reported electoral vote win in New Mexico was thrown into confusion Friday. A recount of ballots in one county, which could potentially overturn Gore's statewide lead, was delayed after hitting a snag, officials said. They did not explain what the problem was.



Whatever the outcome, New Mexico's five electoral college votes are not enough to decide the national race.


CNN Miami Bureau Chief John Zarrella, Correspondents Mike Boettcher, Jonathan Karl, John King, Jeanne Meserve, Bill Hemmer, CNN.com's Ian Christopher McCaleb and The Associated Press contributed to this report.