Florida Democrats launching campaign to discredit legislative session

By Larry MargasakAssociated Press Internet Writer

TALLAHASSEE, Fla. (AP) -- Democrats are distributing thousands of
orange ribbons in a campaign to discredit any attempt by Florida's
Republican-controlled legislature to intervene in the contested
presidential election.


Florida's GOP chairman responded that a "carpetbagger"-run
campaign will backfire on Vice President Al Gore.


With a cautious state Senate president unwilling to immediately
convene a special session, Democrats jockeyed for political
advantage. If the legislature convenes, the minority could not
prevent a Republican-engineered vote for a slate of electors
pledged to GOP nominee George W. Bush.


Spearheaded by Florida Democrats and coordinated with national
party officials and the Gore campaign, the offensive will include
news conferences, rallies, statements by congressional leaders and
the orange ribbons. Democrats say the ribbons, being distributed


Monday, use the color of the Sunshine State to remind voters that
the legislature may impose its will over theirs.


Florida's legislative rules do not permit the minority party to
filibuster to prevent a vote during a special session. But
Democrats believe they can win the battle for public sympathy by
painting the Florida Republicans as "extreme," said a party
strategist involved in the plans, speaking on condition of
anonymity.


Asked about the possible GOP legislative action, Gore said on
CBS' "60 Minutes" Sunday night, "I can't imagine they would do
that."


Democratic National Committee spokeswoman Jenny Backus said,
"It's only natural that the Florida Democratic Party would be
organizing and speaking out against this purely partisan power grab
by the governor (Bush's brother, Jeb) and his allies in the
legislature."


Florida's Republican chairman, Al Cardenas, responded that
voters chose a GOP-dominated legislature, and "efforts by
carpetbaggers to come and denigrate our state and legislators is
not going to be well-received by the people and could hurt Al
Gore."


He would not say how Republicans would counterattack but vowed,
"We're not going to concede the public forums to the Democrats."


"A special session is not something either (side) cherishes,"
Cardenas said. "I think everyone is hoping that nature would take
care of things before they would have to."


While a legislative committee has recommended convening the
session, Senate President John McKay said he won't sign off until
he reads the panel's report. His go-slow approach contrasted with
House Speaker Tom Feeney's willingness to begin the session
immediately.


The Democratic strategist said Democratic legislators are
sending Senate Republicans the message that intervention could have
a "lasting effect" that would harm cooperation on other issues.


Florida legislative leaders usually hold their leadership
positions for short periods and have little time to build a
bipartisan consensus, he pointed out.


On the other hand, Republicans hold a strong 77-43 majority in
the House and a 25-15 advantage in the Senate.


A special session would allow the GOP majority to name the same
slate of electors awarded to Bush when Secretary of State Katherine
Harris certified a vote count giving the Republican a 537-vote
advantage in the state.


Supporters of a special session say it will guarantee that
Florida is represented when the Electoral College meets Dec. 18
should court challenges not be resolved by then.



Democrats counter that the decision could trigger a
constitutional crisis if court-ordered recounts give the election
to Gore, leaving Florida with competing slates of electors to be
sorted out by Congress.


Associated Press news material shall not be published, broadcast, rewritten for broadcast or publication or redistributed directly or indirectly in any medium.