Republicans to inspect impounded New Mexico ballots

By Heather Clark/Associated Press


ALBUQUERQUE (AP) -- Republicans planned to send volunteers to inspect the state's impounded presidential ballots before a Friday deadline for requesting a recount of returns that gave Al Gore victory in New Mexico.



Republican National Committeeman Mickey Barnett said he hoped to have 12 teams of volunteers in place by Monday. GOP officials weren't sure how many counties the volunteers could visit this week.



"If (the volunteers) find ballots that were not counted, like the situation in Roosevelt County, we want to know it," Barnett said Sunday.



Republicans questioned the returns in Roosevelt County because it appeared that 10 percent of voters had not cast ballots in the presidential race. A computer programming error was uncovered, and George W. Bush picked up votes after a hand recount of the county.



But New Mexico's five electoral votes still went to Vice President Al Gore, who led by 368 votes -- 286,787 to Bush's 286,419.



Barnett said the inspection teams would begin asking for court orders Monday to allow them to inspect the early vote and absentee vote paper ballots. Republicans went to court to get the ballots impounded statewide less than a week after the Nov. 7 election.



Barnett said it was "not likely" Republicans would request a statewide recount, but if errors were uncovered the party may request recounts in some local races.



The Bush campaign, defending his win in certified Florida results in court, had not taken action as of Sunday to contest New Mexico's election results, Rule said.



State Democratic Party Chairwoman Diane Denish criticized the GOP inspections, saying Republicans "are trying to figure out what they want to do and keep the door open."



Volunteers met at Republican headquarters Sunday to discuss the inspections, which will cover both the presidential and state races.



"We're looking at a lot of races and upholding the integrity of the vote," Republican spokeswoman Natalie Rule said. "I think there's a special need to go in and examine, and make us feel that the certification was indeed correct."



The state Canvassing Board certified the election results effective Thursday, but Republican Gov. Gary Johnson has scheduled a second meeting Tuesday to formally accept amended results from Roosevelt County.


Copyright
		2000
		The Associated Press.  All rights reserved.  This material may not be published, broadcast, rewritten, or redistributed.