Gore team appeals to restart recounts

Election cases now converge on Florida Supreme Court









Greta Van Susteren on U.S. Supreme Court ruling in Florida election disputeEileen O'Connor: Gore presses onwardTony Clark monitors the Bush campJonathan Karl on the possible 'sleeper case' in the election dispute


TALLAHASSEE (CNN) -- Even as Florida Circuit Judge N. Sanders Sauls read his Monday afternoon decision rejecting Al Gore's pleas for a ballot recount in two of Florida's most populous and Democrat-friendly counties, the Gore team put the finishing touches on its appeal to the state Supreme Court. 



Sauls -- whose ruling was anxiously awaited following the surprise move earlier in the day by the U.S. Supreme Court to kick its portion of the Florida recount controversy back down to the Sunshine State -- decided against allowing manual recounts of contested ballots from Miami-Dade and Palm beach counties. Sauls ruled Gore's legal team failed to prove recounts would be required under Florida law.



After a full weekend of testimony, Sauls, in somber and measured tones, said the plaintiffs in the case -- specifically Gore -- had not proven with certainty that a hand count of some 14,000 questionable ballots would give Gore a definitive lead over his Republican rival for the presidency, George W. Bush.



Taking nearly half an hour to read his decision, Sauls said Gore's lawyers failed to establish that "the result in the state of Florida (after a recount) would be different than the results certified by the state's elections canvassing commission."



Bush held a 930-vote lead over Gore prior to the inclusion of recount tallies on November 19. Florida certified a 537-vote lead for Bush on November 26.



Lead Gore attorney David Boies disagreed with Sauls when his court went into recess.



"The statute says you need only have a sufficient number of votes to change or place in the doubt the results of an election," Boies argued. "(Sauls) has not even looked at any of the ballots."



"This is the first case that I am aware of where, in a ballot contest, the court has refused to look at any ballot," Boies continued.



Boies said the Gore team had already filed its appeal with the Florida Circuit Court of Appeals and asked that court to transmit the documents forthwith to the Florida Supreme Court.



"We think the evidence is in the record," he said.



Bush lawyer Ben Ginsberg, however, said he was "very pleased with the outcome." 

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)

(QuickTime, Real or Windows Media)


"Americans can be comforted to learn that the Florida judge found no credible evidence to suggest that the results from any additional recounts would be any different from the results of the counts and recounts already conducted, all of which showed Gov. Bush and Dick Cheney won Florida's electoral votes," Bush Communications Director Karen Hughes said Monday night in Austin.



"The court reviewed all the facts, listened to all the arguments, considered all the evidence, and concluded that Florida's votes were cast and counted fairly and properly," Hughes said.



At least for now, many election-related tentacles seem to be converging. Monday's whirlwind series of events managed, in the course of only eight hours, to train the focus of almost the entire dispute over the contested 2000 election for the presidency squarely on one place -- the Florida Supreme Court.


From Washington back to Tallahassee


In an unexpected and unusual move, the U.S. Supreme Court kicked its portion of the Florida recount controversy back into the lap of the Florida Supreme Court on Monday morning. 



Attorneys for both candidates have until 3 p.m. ET Tuesday to file supplemental briefs with the Florida high court as it reconsiders its decision to allow hand recounts to be included in the final tally, and to extend the state's certification date.


The federal justices' seven-page opinion was released just before noon ET Monday -- shortly before Sauls was first expected to release his own ruling on Gore's contest to the Florida presidential results. Sauls then delayed his ruling until the afternoon to assess the effect of the high court's actions on his own work. 



The U.S. Supreme Court had considered a Bush campaign argument against an earlier ruling by the Florida Supreme Court that allowed manual ballot recounts to move ahead in three Florida counties -- Broward, Palm Beach and Miami-Dade, which later opted out of the process. Both sides pleaded their case to the court's seated justices on Friday.



The high court's unexpected, unsigned opinion -- dropped on reporters shortly after the court had said it would not issue any opinions Monday -- expressed some amount of confusion about the earlier ruling by the Florida Supreme Court that the ballot recounts could proceed, and that those tallies should be included in the state's election certification.



The U.S. high court said, in effect, that the Florida Supreme Court must revisit the issue: The justices were unclear whether the Florida court based its earlier decision on the state Constitution or on the authority of the Florida Legislature.



Bush, appearing before reporters in Austin, Texas, for a brief photo opportunity, told reporters he was grateful for the court's ruling.



"We wanted to make sure the outcome of this election is a fair outcome," a smiling, relaxed Bush said. "I am grateful that the court made the decision it made. Remember, it wasn't all that long ago when people were boldly predicting the court wasn't going to hear our case."



Gore chose to remain out of the public eye Monday, though he and running mate Joe Lieberman were seen entering and leaving a transition meeting in the middle of the afternoon.



Still, a number of conference calls took place between Gore's core political team and Democrats in Congress throughout the day, with the leaders of the congressional minority saying they were content to stand by the vice president as the legal processes continue.



The Bush legal team in Tallahassee greeted the decision by the nation's highest court as a victory Monday afternoon.



"From our standpoint at least, it was a win," said James Baker, the former secretary of state and Bush's top observer in Florida.



"This decision vacated the Florida Supreme Court ruling," Baker said. "In so doing, it instructed the Florida court to consider and resolve both of the grounds we raised in our appeal."



Those grounds for argument, Baker said, were based on the Florida court's "rewriting" of election laws in the midst of a presidential election and the "changing" of election laws after Election Day.



The "legal effect," Baker insisted, was that the Florida high court must now revisit its earlier ruling in a manner consistent with federal election laws and the U.S. Constitution. "This is precisely what we argued before the Florida and United States Supreme Courts."


 
The long-term effect, Baker predicted, would be the preservation of Bush's lead over Gore.



"If there is a new total, it moves up, it doesn't move down, and we're ahead in both scenarios," he said.



A Gore spokesman told CNN early on that the vice president's team did not see the new development as a setback.



"We do not see this as a blow," said Gore spokesman Doug Hattaway, who added that the issue was merely being returned to Florida for further explanation.



The apparent good news for Republicans prompted some party members to pipe up throughout the day, and many urged Gore to give his fight a rest. Rep. J.C. Watts, an Oklahoma Republican and a member of the House leadership, called on Gore to abandon his legal challenges within minutes of the release of the Supreme Court opinion.



"In view of this ruling by the highest court in the land, I again call on Vice President Al Gore to concede graciously and drop all plans for dragging this out any longer," Watts said.  "America needs to move forward, not be bogged down by the desperation of one man's obsession," he said.



And retired Gen. Colin Powell, Bush's likely choice for secretary of state should he emerge victorious from this exhaustive fray, said Monday afternoon that the American people were still exhibiting patience with this process, but that patience may run out.



"The American people to this point have taken it in stride," Powell said, "And I don't think they are upset yet to a point where it is troubling to the nation."



"But I think if it drags on beyond the middle of December when those electoral college deadlines come into effect, then I think people will want to see a resolution of this as quickly as possible."



Sen. John Breaux, D-Louisiana, said Monday on NBC's "Today" show that both candidates will have to find "an appropriate time" to conclude the election battle.



"The most important speech of this election is ... going to be given by the loser when they concede because it will set the tone for the next four years," said Breaux, who is among a number of Democrats that Bush advisers have suggested for a slot in his administration. 


Peripheral election problems still in the mix


Another case awaits trial in Florida's Seminole County, where Democrats have challenged absentee ballots on the grounds that Republicans were improperly allowed to fill in missing data on application envelopes. There are more than enough votes at issue in Seminole County to erase Bush's lead.



An emergency hearing occurred Monday afternoon in the Seminole case.



And allegations of voter disenfranchisement in some Florida localities increased in urgency Monday as the Rev. Jesse Jackson insisted corruption, incompetence and confusion resulted in thousands of minority members being disallowed from casting ballots November 7.



The Justice Department dispatched two civil rights attorneys to Florida on Monday to look into some of the allegations, though the department insisted that an official probe was not being opened.



"We are continuing to assess whether a basis exists for a federal investigation," said a Justice Department official. The source declined to say where in Florida the attorneys were gathering information.



Jackson told CNN on Sunday that he has been hearing an increasing number of complaints about irregularities.



"They should have monitored the 7th of November," he said after a day
of preaching in Sanford, Tallahassee and Jacksonville. "They are doing very
little, very late."



"Thousands of voters were disenfranchised," Jackson said, calling it
"very embarrassing."



Jackson met briefly Friday with Attorney General Janet Reno to discuss the complaints by African-American voters in Florida. The NAACP and several Democratic members of Congress have also called for a Justice Department investigation into incidents which, they believe, may violate the Voting Rights Act of 1965.



"There is widespread, credible evidence of targeted voter disenfranchisement," Gary Flowers, Field Director of the Rainbow Push Coalition and a spokesman for Rev. Jackson, said Sunday.  He said during the Friday meeting, black leaders were told federal investigators would probe whether voters from heavily Democratic precincts -- predominantly black and Jewish voters -- had been prevented from exercising their right to vote, either through deliberate fraud or inadvertent confusion and election irregularities.



In addition to complaints in Palm Beach and Miami-Dade counties, Justice officials have also been asked to investigate allegations in Duval County -- a Florida county that went for Republican candidate George W. Bush by a margin of 44,421 votes. Specifically, black leaders are concerned about the over- and undervote in Duval County, which, they say reflect "a more-than-normal percentage in historically black precincts."



Isaiah Rumlin, president of the Duval County chapter of the NAACP, confirmed his office had been getting many complaints related to the November 7 election  and said he was organizing public hearings this week. 


"We are concerned about the undervote and the overvote," he said. "Most of these votes were in predominantly black precincts... if these allegations are true, it would be serious disenfranchisement."


More combatants prepare to join the fray


On yet another front, a Washington-style battle between the legislative and judicial branches of government is shaping up in Florida as the Republicans who control the Florida House were inching closer to calling a special session of the legislature to choose a slate of Bush electors.



That session would act, the Republicans say, should court challenges threaten
the state's ability to cast its electoral votes on December 18. 


"We're not trying to steal any election," state House Speaker Tom Feeney said on NBC. "We are trying to preserve the election as it was conducted under the law that existed before the Florida Supreme Court changed it." 



The state Senate, also GOP-run, is moving more slowly. Gore and his allies have warned repeatedly against such a move. 



"I can't imagine that they would do that," Gore said of intervention by the state Legislature.


CNN's John King, Jeanne Meserve, Ian Christopher McCaleb, Eileen O'Connor, Beth Lewandowski, Terry Frieden and the Associated Press contributed to this report.