Mark Potter on Gore's court challenge

Q: The hearing over the thousands of contested presidential ballots has adjourned until Sunday morning. Is there any indication what will happen at that time?

POTTER: The case is now in the hands of the lawyers for Gov. Bush. They have already put on two witnesses and were meeting overnight to decide which witnesses to call on Sunday. We don't know how long the session will go on Sunday.

The judge has said he wants this case to move quickly, but there are a lot of issues to discuss, and one attorney even suggested the hearing might continue through Monday.

Q: What are the limitations on the judge? Is there a possibility the judge will stop the hearing and make a ruling?

POTTER: Anything is possible in this hearing, and it should be noted that the lawyers for Gov. Bush have filed a motion to dismiss Vice President Gore's lawsuit. So far, the judge has not entertained that motion. He's waiting to hear the evidence.

If he decides to continue the trial, he has a number of questions to answer: Should there be another manual ballot recount? How would that count be conducted? How many counties would be involved?

The attorneys for Vice President Gore want manual counts of ballots from Miami-Dade County and Palm Beach County.

The attorneys for Gov. Bush have said if that happens they might wish to examine ballots from Broward, Pinellas and Volusia counties.

Q: What kinds of comments have you overheard from the key players on the sidelines of the trial?

POTTER: There are two basic themes that we have been hearing. First, almost everyone we talk to agrees this is a critically important hearing, particularly for Vice President Gore.

Some have suggested that if he loses this case, he could be facing the end of his political fight.

The other talk we have been hearing is that the vice president's case, so far, seems weaker than many here expected. They have expressed disappointment in the witnesses called by Mr. Gore's attorneys.

Q: What is the motivation behind the Republicans' insistence that the ballots be moved to Tallahassee?

POTTER: The Republicans have always alleged that handling these ballots over and over could physically alter these punch cards.

They wanted the ballots secured so that no one else could handle them. They also wanted to underscore their point that if any ballots are counted in Miami-Dade and Palm Beach counties, then all ballots from those counties should be reexamined.

It should be clear, though, that their core argument is that any manual count would be "unwarranted, unfair and without basis in Florida law."